
Letter: County auditors deserve praise for elections
Newspaper November 16, 2016 | American News, The (Aberdeen, SD)
Author: Staff Writer Section: Letters 327 Words
Letter: County auditors deserve praise for elections
Nothing is more important to the future of our Republic than the right of each individual citizen to vote. In order for our rights to be preserved, they must be exercised. South Dakota voters did just that when they showed up to the polls with nearly 70 percent turnout.

Voters in South Dakota had important decisions this election cycle with a presidential election and 10 ballot questions.

In South Dakota, our elections are run locally. I'd like to share with you the process, highlighting the countless hours our county auditors, along with their staff and Election Day workers, dedicated in preparation for an incredible event that happens every four years.

For a year and a half, county auditors worked with the Secretary of State's office to prepare for the presidential election.

Auditors identify polling locations, train their staff, work with voter registrations, prepare ballots, prepare absentee ballots, prepare sample ballots, post notices of election, test vote tabulating equipment, publish the full text of ballot questions in local newspapers, draw for ballot order, manage and update the voter list, process campaign finance reports, train hundreds of Election Day workers, process absentee ballot applications, process voter registrations, conduct a county canvass of official results and make sure our military men and women are able to cast their absentee ballot if they are serving overseas. In addition, they take rigorous steps to ensure voter fraud does not happen in South Dakota by completing voter registration background checks and checking photo IDs at the polls when ballots are cast.

Voter turnout in South Dakota Nov. 8 was 378,995 with 69.6 percent.

In 2016, South Dakota voters broke records. There were more absentee ballots cast than we've ever seen with 108,733 and a new high in voter registrations with 544,428. In keeping with South Dakota tradition, our county auditors and their staff processed these record numbers professionally and efficiently.

Thank you for your participation in our election process.

Shantel Krebs

South Dakota Secretary of State

Pierre
Copyright 2016 The American News. All Rights Reserved.
