LETTERS 
December 18, 2016 | Arkansas Democrat-Gazette (Little Rock, AR) 
Section: Editorial 
1015 Words 
Page: 105 
OpenURL 
Link 
It's an all-day sucker 
After reading Linda A. Farrell's letter in the paper, I agree with P.T. Barnum's reported statement, "There's a sucker born every minute." And if Linda believes Hillary Rodham Clinton was the solution to all of America's problems, then I know who the sucker is that P.T. was referring to. 
Suck it up, buttercup; you lost! 
W.R. AKIN 
Redfield 
Oh, that democracy! 
The ongoing furor about the horrors of electoral voting somehow reminded me of H.L. Mencken's quote, "Democracy is the theory that the common people know what they want, and deserve to get it good and hard." Old H.L. had a way with words. 
Suddenly the voters have again discovered electoral voting and are warning the nation of its peril. 
I doubt many actually looked into it, but what the hell? It might be a good idea if we could suspend that part of the Constitution for the next two presidential elections and just count the popular vote. When voters from about 45 states discover that their vote counts for nothing and that Texas, California, New York, Florida and Illinois voters determine who wins, maybe they will accept that the founders knew what they were doing. As long as there are small and large states (population-wise), electoral voting gives each state a voice in who becomes president. 
One thing we might consider is issuing a national voting ID card to every citizen who wants to vote. It would have face and profile photographs, the usual ID information, fingerprints, and a national voter ID number. When the card is presented at an election, it would be entered into the public record that this person voted on that date at that precinct. It would put a dent in voter fraud, but incredibly, it seems some states are afraid of it. Imagine that. 
WALTER SKELTON 
Little Rock 
Non-presidential elect 
Every time I hear another one of Donald Trump's insulting tirades aimed at his latest public detractor, I am reminded of a great line in the classic Woody Allen film, Bananas. In the scene, Allen's character Fielding Mellish is getting dumped by his girlfriend Nancy (played by real-life ex Louise Lasser) for his immaturity. 
The exchange goes something like this: 
Lasser: You're immature, Fielding. 
Allen: How am I immature? 
Lasser: Well, emotionally, sexually and intellectually. 
Allen: Yeah, but what other ways? 
Fast-forward to post-election America. You gotta laugh. Because it hurts too much to cry. 
DANE BUXBAUM 
Little Rock 
Not what we wanted 
It seems awfully suspicious to me how accommodating Donald Trump has been to Russia, and how much he's defended it, especially in the whole mess about possible election tampering. Aren't we supposed to be wary of the Russians, and especially Vladimir Putin? 
And what is going on with his Cabinet and senior staff picks? People who hate certain departments are being picked to lead those departments (like Scott Pruitt at EPA, and Rick Perry at Energy). Multiple billionaires and multimillionaires are being chosen. Jeff Sessions, who was rejected by Republicans for a federal judicial post because of alleged racism, is supposed to lead the Justice Department. And Stephen Bannon, who's given white supremacists a huge platform, is going to be his senior adviser. Is this what the people wanted? That swamp he keeps talking about draining just seems to be getting more full and a lot stinkier. 
It looks like the same "it's all about me" attitude of Trump's has filtered down to the people, so maybe that is what they wanted-or at least the 47 percent that voted for him as opposed to the majority that voted for Hillary or someone else entirely. 
You can't even go to the store in peace anymore. Christmas shoppers are just so rude. They'll cut you off in the parking lot. You go in the store and they run over you. Where are the happy people, the nice ones who'll help you instead of trying to knock you over to get something? God forbid if you say "happy holidays" to some of them since they seem to go nuclear over every tiny thing, like there's only one holiday this time of year. 
I guess I'll just sit here and wait for sanity and common sense to return. Lord, I hope they do. 
L.M.L. TERRELL 
Dayton 
Panicked about vote 
It's frightening to read all the letters on the Voices page written by people who are absolutely panicked about the results of the election. Did they really like, or even know about, how things had changed and where America was headed before the election? I for one have been alarmed by the required political correctness, the subtle loss of freedoms in regard to religious convictions, the lack of freedom of religious expression in the military, the weakening of our military readiness, the unsustainable and growing debt, our loss of standing among the nations of the world, the loss of our manufacturing capabilities, the outof-control Environmental Protection Agency, the growth of crime, and on and on. Why do you think Donald Trump got all those votes? Evidently lots of other people were worried about those things. 
It seems to me that our president-elect is choosing for his administration people who have succeeded and know how to get things done; things like improving healthcare coverage, straightening out our economic problems, ending regulations and heavy taxes that sent companies overseas, reducing our debt, strengthening our military. If something needs fixing, get an expert. That's what Trump is doing. 
It seems the media is doing its best to demonize Trump and strike fear into the hearts of the American people. Instead of complaining, why not pray that God will make him into a good president? During Lincoln's term, a well-known pastor in New York said the prayers of the people made President Lincoln what he was to the nation. 
LOIS WISE 
Wynne 
Shakespeare knew it 
The descent of our country's presidency from Barack Obama to Donald Trump is expressed well in Act One of Hamlet. Prince Hamlet compares his honorable dead father to the old king's hastily wed 
successor and Hamlet's new stepfather, the lecherous, corrupt Claudius: "Hyperion to a satyr." 
Shakespeare for the ages indeed. 
SUZANN WELTY BARR 
Little Rock 
Copyright 2016, Arkansas Democrat-Gazette. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'LETTERS', Arkansas Democrat-Gazette (online), 18 Dec 2016 105 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1615BAA0D4418048 
