Letters to the Editor 
October 21, 2016 | Arizona Daily Star, The (Tucson, AZ) Section: Opinion 
829 Words Page: A09 
OpenURL 
Link 
Those 80 and over should not run for office I am a 74-year-old former public official and professor of political science. I believe strongly that no one 80 or older should run for public office. I think Ive aged rather well, but know Im not as strong or sharp as I once was. My outlook is quite different from younger people struggling to raise families and make a living. They deserve to shape their own futures. Eighty-year-olds who continue to run for office must 
think they are indispensable  and in a democracy no one is indispensable. For these reasons, among others, I have voted for Ann Kirkpatrick, not John McCain, as my senator. Tim Tilton Foothills Rhetoric, intimidation show we have regressedLet me see if I have this correct: After a short attempt by Republicans to win over people of color with philosophical rhetoric, Republican 
states have attempted to restrict voting rights in an effort to prevent people of color from voting in large 
numbers. That one presidential candidate is calling for intimidation to occur at polling places where people of color tend to vote. 
That the supporters on one presidential candidate will not accept the results of an election if their 
candidate loses. Firstly, it appears that we have returned to a political era in which the only legitimate votes are cast by those who are not people of color, and yet the racial divide in America no longer exists? 
Secondly, it also seems that if the Republican presidential candidate does win, those who did not support the candidate should just accept that reality  but the reverse is not true. Craig Whaley Northwest side Experienced Nanos deserves support I join many Tucsonans and residents of Pima County in support of Chris Nanos for Pima County Sheriff.I 
have known Sheriff Nanos since early 2001. I observed him as he worked in the Sheriffs office. I met him through then-Sheriff Dupnik 
, and was impressed with his professional manner in being a police officer. He has come up through the ranks of the Pima County Sheriffs office to become the Chief Deputy in 2014. 
Having been Pima County Attorney and serving on the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee, I know just how important local law enforcement is. Sheriff Nanos has the experience, knowledge of the law, and understanding of our community to continue the fine law enforcement we have in Pima County. 
Chris Nanos is not a politician. He is a professional police officer. 
Please join me in voting for Chris Nanos for Pima County Sheriff. 
Dennis DeConcini 
Midtown 
Is it liberal media bias or is Trump unfit? 
Donald Trump does not miss an opportunity to blame the liberal media bias for being against him and for rigging the election. How then, does he explain why so many papers, such as the Arizona Republic, LA Times, Dallas Morning News, and Cincinnati Enquirer have endorsed Hillary Clinton? In many cases, these and other papers across the country, never endorsed a Democrat in over 100 years of publication. Along with these newspapers, Glen Beck, the antithesis of liberal media, has also left the Trump camp. Is it possible that all of these outlets of conservatism have been brainwashed into conspiring against Trump or is it possible that they simply feel that he is not fit to be the president of the United States? 
Martin Greene 
East side 
Supporters of McSally, McCain ill-informed 
Wednesdays editorial section in the Star was jam-packed with Republicans, standing up for McSally & McCain, while criticizing Michelle Obama.To be clear, Penny MacArthur, Martha McSally has kept out of the fray, precisely because she will vote the Republican ticket. Her record in Congress has been that of an obstructionist, nothing more. 
Concerning John McCain, Jon Hillegas, MD, says McCain will protect our way of life in Arizona. What the heck does that mean? Check his record, people. He also has done more to obstruct passage of bills than to pass them. He holds no credibility, by standing with Trump, until his lead widened over 
Kirkpatrick. Total politics, if you ask me, and he should be ashamed! 
Finally, we come to James Douthit, complaining about Michelle Obama. All I can say Mr. Douthit, is you must have missed her wonderful speech last week, standing up for ALL woman, against sexual assault. Havent heard much from your side. Sad! 
Mary Bradley 
Midtown Clinton shows 2 faces with horrified remark I see that Hillary Clinton is horrified by Donald Trumps remark that he may not accept the election 
results.How horrified was she when her steadfast husband William Jefferson Clinton encouraged Al Gore to sue over the 2000 election results. I guess you have to have a public face and a private face, right? Richard Aufmuth Northeast side 
Accusations evoke memories of 60s song Biased moderators. Biased and dishonest media. Bad microphones. Widespread voter fraud. Voters that should not have been allowed to register. Accusations by ugly women. A nasty woman who should never have been allowed to run for president.Brings a song to mind. 
Its my party and Ill cry if I want to! David Hatch Southeast side 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Arizona Daily Star 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Letters to the Editor', Arizona Daily Star, The (online), 21 Oct 2016 A09 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16028E2D3B762718 
