Letters to the editor 
September 27, 2016 | Arizona Daily Star, The (Tucson, AZ) 
Section: Opinion 
578 Words 
Page: A10 
OpenURL 
Link 
CD2 candidate Heinz needs more visibility 
Does CD2 Congresswoman Martha McSally have a challenger in November? Democratic candidate Matt Heinz is practically invisible. If he hopes to unseat McSally, he had better start campaigning with more media ads and signage before early ballots start getting returned in October. Raymond Silverstein 
Midtown 
As Hart rakes it in, student debt risesAs a proud alumnus of the University of Arizona, a resident and taxpayer in Arizona, I was appalled at the article in Fridays paper about Ann Weaver Hart receiving a years salary after her departure next year. 
It is inconceivable that the Board of Regents would spend $470,000 of public money on someone who has had an average performance at her position, who made a personal decision to resign, who received questionable bonuses during her tenure and who has exercised questionable judgment with her decision to accept $170,000 to serve on the board of DeVry University. Not to mention the sweetheart deal made to award her a full professorship . 
This decision confirms my feelings that our tax dollars and the enormous student loan debt with which so many graduates are encumbered are going to support a system that ignores common sense. 
Donald Davis 
Northeast side 
Why are so many shootings fatal? 
The adage is shoot to kill. Maybe it should be shoot to wound. Why do police need to use overwhelming force when confronting all subjects? 
Dan Beamer 
Northwest side 
Cast your ballot, throw the incumbents out It appears that a majority of American voters are disgusted with our government and our representatives. 
Both parties seem to value their party more than their country. Theres something practical you can do to change that. Vote! Vote! Vote for anyone but the incumbent. Get a new batch of legislators in and at the same time send a message: Do your job on behalf of the 
voters or you will be replaced at the end of your first term. Dennis Winsten Northeast side Flag, ornaments are thieves bounty I live in the area of Fifth and Harrison, and I want to thank the people who stole my flag and three 
ornaments that light up at night. One was a cross, plus a hummingbird and a flower. I hope you enjoy them. Sharlie Deschaines Northeast side 
Ballot harvesting isnt the problem Recent passage by the Arizona Legislature of a bill placing restrictions on absentee ballot submissions is a troublesome development. Proponents 
said it will prevent the harvesting of ballots by the radical left. In actuality, voter fraud is extremely rare in the United States, Arizona included.The much larger problem we face is, in fact, the opposite  voter turnout in the United States is among the lowest of the worlds democratic countries. As a child, I saw my parents vote in our neighbors garage, which had miraculously been transformed to a site of government, run by citizen-neighbors, complete with a huge American flag on the 
wall. It sounds corny, but I was thrilled  and I still am, even though I vote by mail. It is both a responsibility and a privilege to vote. That is the basis of a democratic government (with a 
small d). We should all do it. And its our responsibility to ensure that we can all do it, too. Janet Funk 
Foothills 
Cruz decision to vote for Trump seems fishy 
After enduring the nastiest of insults on his person, his wife and his father by the Republican Party nominee for president, Ted Cruz searches his conscience and decides to vote for said nominee. Sounds more like a stop and frisk than a search. 
Jeff Saylor 
Green Valley 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Arizona Daily Star 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Letters to the editor', Arizona Daily Star, The (online), 27 Sep 2016 A10 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15FAA18433053010 
