Letters to the editor 
January 28, 2017 | Arizona Daily Star, The (Tucson, AZ) 
Section: Opinion 
608 Words 
Page: A11 
OpenURL 
Link 
If both sides are mad, youre doing OK 
I almost spit out my coffee laughing Thursday morning reading two letters in the Star about balanced reporting. One said your reporting was far too liberal, and he was thinking about canceling his Star subscription. The next letter said the Star did not cover the womens march enough! Damned if you do, damned if you dont! Keep reporting as you always have. I love seeing BOTH sides go crazy! Robert Ulsrud East side Senators must speak against vote-fraud liesAnother allegation of massive voter fraud by the president. If this was somehow true, would this have not turned the election the other way? What undocumented person here, if they could have voted, would have chosen the current president? I am publicly imploring all senators to repudiate such nonsense and show the backbone that Sen. Lindsey Graham has shown. Calls to the senators offices have gone unanswered. 
If we cannot count on senators to do the right thing, who can we turn to when the lies endanger not just our credibility but our national security? 
The issues of integrity in our electoral process surely cross party lines and should be something to be proud of. 
Voter suppression is much more of a serious problem in our country than any alleged voter fraud. Sens. (John) McCain and (Jeff) Flake, stand up, speak and condemn such a blatant disregard for the truth. 
James Robinett 
Southwest side Trumps traits arent admirable onesHis campaign started with racist lies about President Obama and Mexican immigrants and went downhill from there. He ridiculed and belittled his opponents and critics, including genuine American heroes, with bullying, insults, and lies (while praising dangerous dictators). If they were women, he demeaned them based on their appearance. 
Now, in the first days of the new administration, we witnessed a deluge of alternative facts (also known as falsehoods and lies) from Trump and his minions, largely focused on a bizarre, petty, whining obsession with crowd sizes and Hillary Clintons vote margin. 
What are we to tell our children and grandchildren? Are these traits to be admired and emulated? Is self
absorption to be encouraged? Is this how to get ahead in the world? I wonder what Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway will do when her kids start telling her alternative facts? 
Vance Holliday 
Foothills Were veering into 1984Trump advisor Kellyanne Conways alternate facts reminds me of (George) Orwells novel 1984 in which The Ministry of Truth declared that War is peace, freedom is slavery, ignorance is strength. To misquote Yogi Berra, It looks like 1984 all over again. 
Jeff Aronson 
Northeast side Mentoring month helping Prince studentsBig Brothers Big Sisters of Tucson and Comcast are celebrating National Mentoring Month.During this national mentoring month, we want to recognize the Beyond School Walls initiative, which is a collaboration between Comcast NBCUniversal, Big Brothers Big Sisters of Tucson and Prince Elementary in Tucson. This program introduces children to jobs at an early age, allowing them to experience what it means to work and the educational requirements needed to achieve professional success. 
Through this partnership, kids in Tucson are introduced to new career paths in technology, marketing and sales, and customer service. 
Several times per month, through the end of the school year, Comcast Bigs meet with their Littles at Prince during their lunch hour, where they spend time getting to know one another, working on homework and learning about what its like to work in the technology industry. 
We thank Big Brothers Big Sisters for partnering with Comcast. We also want to thank our employees who serve as mentors (Bigs), by participating in our workplace mentoring program. 
Mike Eastman 
Executive director, strategy and operations Midtown 
Copyright (c) 2017 The Arizona Daily Star 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Letters to the editor', Arizona Daily Star, The (online), 28 Jan 2017 A11 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16232C5A69F83788 
