Letters to the editor 
January 27, 2017 | Arizona Daily Star, The (Tucson, AZ) 
Section: Opinion 
809 Words 
Page: A07 
OpenURL 
Link 
A lesson in damage pipeline can unleash 
I am in seventh grade at Paulo Freire Freedom School. I wanted to write to you about an article I read in the Arizona Daily Star about how President Donald Trump has acted to move the Dakota Access Pipeline and the Keystone Pipeline forward. In science class, we have studied the Dakota Access Pipeline and how the pipeline would destroy land, relocate people and pollute water. After studying the science, we made awareness posters about the Dakota Access Pipeline.We also watched videos reservation youth recorded about the pipeline and the damage it would do on http://rezpectourwater.com/. I am writing this letter to tell you that the article in the Arizona Daily Star was a really sad article. If (or when) the Dakota Access Pipeline goes in then it will destroy land that tribes have made sacred, pollute water and relocate tribes. Xia Bernheimer Hendricks Downtown 
Voter fraud difficult, if not impossible 
The Artful Dodger is at it again wasting taxpayers money investigating unsubstantiated claims of voter fraud while diverting our attention from the important things. His only proof is information from his sources, which are never identified. Sound familiar?Ive been a poll worker in Pima County for several years and know the process well. It would be difficult, if not impossible, for someone to vote twice or for illegals to cast ballots. Early ballots have been under scrutiny but are identified in the voter register, and I can assure you that they only vote once. As for the deceased voting, the Voter Registration Office is notified in a few ways: notification from the state, paid obituaries (which they read), and/or a copy of the death certificate provided by the family or other source.Millions of Americans have diligently worked the polls all across this country, protecting our freedom to vote and our democratic process. Dont accept Trumps constant whining or his alternative truths, better known as lies. 
Norma Guest 
East side Fitz cartoon was misunderstoodRecent letter writers took offense to the cartoon: Big Lie, suggesting that Fitz, not being alive when Nazi Germany thrived, couldnt appreciate the turmoil that the world was in.Perhaps the letter writer missed the point of the cartoon, which was about lies and depicted Hitler with his Minister of Propaganda, Joseph Goebbels. 
I think Goebbels words are relevant and worth repeating: 
If you tell a lie big enough and keep repeating it, people will eventually come to believe it. The lie can be maintained only for such time as the State can shield the people from the political, economic and/or 
military consequences of the lie. It thus becomes vitally important for the State to use all of its powers to repress dissent, for the truth is the mortal enemy of the lie, and thus by extension, the truth is the greatest enemy of the State. 
Cartoons that encourage resistance to lies and the search for the truth are timeless. 
David W. Gallagher 
Foothills Report more on traffic deathsI am writing because I feel the media really drops the ball when it comes to traffic deaths and injuries. Several people get killed in Iraq or some Middle East city you all announce it and yet we kill on average 130 of our innocent people a day and injure thousands and you never mention that, these are devastated families and they dont get any notice.When there is shooting that always hits the news, but a man was killed on Swan last week and one small paragraph was all his life was worth. How sad. 
Thomas Crawford 
Foothills Give Roadrunners hockey games a tryWe are fortunate to now have high-quality professional hockey in Tucson. I had only been to one hockey game prior to watching the Roadrunners this season. I was surprised at how fast the action is, and interesting it is to learn the rules of an unfamiliar sport. Many Tucson residents are from the Midwest or the East where hockey is very popular. For those of us who grew up in the West, you owe it to yourself to check out our team. We are on target to make the playoffs.The experience is affordable for families. My two sons had no interest in joining my wife and I at the games, so one night I insisted they go with me. Since then, they ask me weekly what days the Roadrunners play. 
If you havent gone to a game, try it. You might be surprised how much you enjoy it. 
Mike Pavon 
Midtown What cant happen is happeningPrescient in 1935, Sinclair Lewis It Cant Happen Here is a must-read today. I am afraid that Mr. Trump is creating a perfect storm. I dont vote for him, I peacefully dissent, am arrested, get labeled as a felon under Attorney General Jeff Sessions and the other alt-right DOJ deputies, lose my right to vote. Voila: proof of fraudulent voting. First me, then her, then you. No one is safe if one is not safe. 
Eudene Lupino 
Northwest side 
Copyright (c) 2017 The Arizona Daily Star 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Letters to the editor', Arizona Daily Star, The (online), 27 Jan 2017 A07 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1622D75B0D9C67D0 
