Letters to the editor 
October 23, 2016 | Arizona Daily Star, The (Tucson, AZ) 
Section: Opinion 
793 Words 
Page: A09 
OpenURL 
Link 
Blatant media bias shields the Clintons 
While the mainstream media ignored the recent Project Veritas shocking footage of Scott Foval, national field director at Americans for Change (Democratic campaign), admitting that morals and ethics should be no consideration in conducting the election, and the NYC election commissioner saying he thinks there is a lot of voter fraud, admitting busing people to multiple voting sites and unverified ID cards being given out by Mayor Bill de Blasio  the eyes of many were opened to blatant media bias and suppression of the truth.While Trumps attitudes and actions towards women may have been reprehensible, the mainstream media continually refers to Bill Clintons sexcapades as affairs (some were) but never to his rapes and sexual assaults, which were reported at the time. In one case, he made an $850,000 settlement. And who do you think was responsible for threatening his victims of sexual assault? Hardly a womans woman. 
It appears the media is afraid of crossing the Clinton machine by telling the whole truth. 
Carol D. Warner 
Foothills 
Johnson and Weld are best choices for US 
An excellent nominee for president is third-party candidate Gary Johnson, a two-term governor from New Mexico, experienced and competent. He was excluded from presidential debates even though he is qualified to be on ballots in all 50 states.No law says we must choose from only two political parties. Abraham Lincoln was a third-party candidate and he healed a divided nation. This year, we need that kind of leadership. Johnson and his running mate, William Weld, both seasoned governors, have the know-how and political maturity to end the insane, childish partisanship that is tearing the government and the nation apart. These two governors are statesmen: genuine, honest and decent. 
Debates only informed us about the two presidential candidates we dislike. Then we ask, will I be proud of my vote? We all want a president and vice president we can feel comfortable with. 
Jane Kenny 
Downtown McCain conceded, then obstructed It is an act of respect for the will of the American people, said Sen. John McCain, schooling Donald 
Trump on his possible lack of concession.However, it is worth noting that McCain, in his concession to Obama, said, I pledge to him tonight to do all in my power to help him lead us through the many challenges we face. Soon after, McCain joined the Just Say No to Obama movement. 
Perhaps in this election, Arizona will elect a senator whose walk will match her talk. David W. Gallagher Foothills Lots of smoke from Clinton Should Hillary Clinton win the election we can expect to see a constant stream of black smoke emerging 
from the chimneys of the White House as Hillary busily rids the public record of all incriminating evidence of her misuses of power. White smoke will tell us her work is done.We will have to learn, like our Eastern Bloc brethren of recent past, how to read between the lines of our 
media to get the truth. Geoffrey Fox East side McCain and McSally in position to save A-10 Re: the Star article A-10 gets backing of key House lawmaker on Oct. 20: This article is a wake-up call 
for residents of Congressional District 2. There are basically two federal government committees responsible for funding the A-10  one in the Senate and the other in the House. The Armed Services Appropriation Committees for both are 
controlled by chairpersons very supportive of the A-10, one being Sen. John McCain and the other Rep. Mac Thornberry, who just visited Tucson with Rep. Martha McSally. Both Arizona Republicans are running for re-election and currently in positions to sustain the A-10, a vital 
funding element for Tucson, providing they are still members in Congress. Vote against them and you are voting to put A-10 funding in jeopardy by removing their influence. 
Dave Efnor 
East side 
Need for change is urgent in Congress 
Even before he was sworn in, the Republicans vowed to prevent the first African-American president from being successful. Now, these same Republicans have said they plan once again to obstruct the first woman president.Was there ever a more urgent time to change Congress? Votes for Matt Heinz and Ann Kirkpatrick may bring us a Congress and Supreme Court that will be allowed to do their jobs and serve us, the public. 
Ebba Andersen 
Green Valley 
Disdain for democracy disqualifies Trump 
Donald Trump, as a candidate for president of the United States, is supposedly fully aware of the lawful election process. But by his refusal to accept the outcome of the election, he has demonstrated his fraudulent acceptance of the Republican Party nomination, his disdain for the concept of democracy and his unwillingness to abide by the will of the people: grounds to be disqualified for the presidency. 
Robert Swaim 
East side 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Arizona Daily Star 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Letters to the editor', Arizona Daily Star, The (online), 23 Oct 2016 A09 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160331C6029A8100 
