LETTERS; One week of Trump
Publication info: Los Angeles Times ; Los Angeles, Calif. [Los Angeles, Calif]29 Jan 2017: A.17.
ProQuest document link
Abstract:
Tom Herz San Francisco :: I am addressing my comments to members of Congress with respect to the future of America and the world: Virginia Beard Huntington Beach :: From the state of California -- where the state and local government agencies have paid workers such high salaries, pensions and healthcare that budgets are under stress; where the governor is trying to establish his legacy by pushing a financially disastrous train; where the state welcomes illegal immigrants and in some cases places them ahead of U.S. citizens -- you have blasted Trump throughout his first week as president. Americans have defined simple civic rules dictating fair play and harmlessness, and it is time for the new leader of this nation to learn the same on an international level. Energy efficient, cash efficient Re "A high price to pay," Opinion, Jan. 26 Paul Bledsoe, in documenting the already huge cost of climate change impacts in our nation, also notes climate denialists' concern about the economic costs of laws that aim to cut greenhouse gas emissions. [...]they hugely reduce greenhouse gas emissions, for which they were indirectly responsible. Just put on hold by Republicans are new efficiency standards for related products: portable air conditioners, freezers and walk-in coolers. Squirming to find a way out of his embarrassing voter fraud claim, President Trump is attempting a bait-and-switch, advertising massive fraud but serving us voter registration errors.
Links:
Full Text Finder
Full text:
What a sorry sight to behold: The chief executive of this country begins his term in office acting with such contempt for many of the people and the institutions he must serve. He insults the office and the nation with the belligerent hubris and lies that he and his advisors continue to peddle.
President Trump appears to have two ways to communicate: either bombastic self-promotion or lashing out and silencing those who do not agree with him. There is no appreciation or validity accorded to other perspectives.
What a mockery it makes of the task with which he has been charged. In a little more than a week, we've gone from an Obama nation to an abomination.
Tom Herz
San Francisco
::
I am addressing my comments to members of Congress with respect to the future of America and the world:
There is an egomaniac in the White House, so what are you going to do about it? As Republican and Democratic lawmakers, you need to put differences aside to find a way to stop Trump from destroying all that you hold dear about your country.
One example of Trump's many outrageous performances is his souring of our relationship with Mexico because he did not get his way. How presidential is that?
Every morning your eyebrows must rise a little higher than the day before as you hear about Trump's latest tweet or "presidential" action. If you cannot stand up for what you know is right, if you are holding back because you are concerned about your own political future, then you are not protecting the United States, its citizens and the world.
Virginia Beard
Huntington Beach
::
From the state of California -- where the state and local government agencies have paid workers such high salaries, pensions and healthcare that budgets are under stress; where the governor is trying to establish his legacy by pushing a financially disastrous train; where the state welcomes illegal immigrants and in some cases places them ahead of U.S. citizens -- you have blasted Trump throughout his first week as president.
Are you kidding? Trump arrived just in time to save California.
Hello wall and goodbye to illegal immigrants.
Rob Hamers
Irvine
--
Torture talk in Trump's America
Re "Trump's flirtation with torture," editorial Jan. 27
"Torture"? This is a word appearing on The Times' editorial page associated with Chinese water torture, Christian inquisitions and other kinds of human depravity. It is also apparently a current topic of discussion deemed appropriate by the president of the United States of America, the "leader of the free world."
What god-awful med-ieval nightmare is this? Torture? Are we returning to the national shame of black-ops sites in Eastern Europe? Trump's views are completely counter to the spirit and soul of America, where close to every jurisdiction has penalties for intentionally inflicting pain on another person.
Americans have defined simple civic rules dictating fair play and harmlessness, and it is time for the new leader of this nation to learn the same on an international level.
Jacqueline Kerr
Los Feliz
::
Trump wants to do everything within the bounds of what you're allowed to do legally when it comes to torture. Who exactly is he talking about torturing? Me?
Right now, he is torturing America with his tweets, and senior White House staffers Kellyanne Conway and Sean Spicer are being tortured by having to explain them.
Tony Wood
Redlands
--
Siding with Mexico's leader
Re "U.S.-Mexico rift grows," Jan. 27
Last week, President Trump demanded more respect from Mexico. This is astounding, considering he has told Mexicans they will pay for a border wall. It doesn't seem the president understands that he is so widely disrespected because he constantly disrespects others.
I consider myself a strong American patriot, but in this matter I stand with the Mexican president. Regarding the wall, I hope that President Enrique Pena Nieto doesn't negotiate with Trump for a second.
Mexican-Americans make up a sizable and an important group in this country. Mexico is a neighbor, friend and partner. I've befriended and worked with very fine people from Mexico, a country that has sent us some of its best.
I grew up in a country with a wall. We were so happy when that thing came down. Let's not put another one up.
Christoph Bull
Los Angeles
::
I agree with Trump that not only do we need a secure wall, but also that only Mexico should pay for the cost of completion.
This would not be a two-way wall. The intent would not be to keep U.S. citizens from illegally entering Mexico, but to keep Mexicans and other non-U.S. citizens from illegally entering the U.S..
The majority of Mexicans entering the U.S. illegally are decent people trying to improve their lives. But the primary responsibility for improving the lives of Mexican citizens lies with the Mexican leadership. If the Mexican government could end corruption and defeat the drug lords, its economy could improve to an extent that Mexicans would have little reason to leave.
The efforts of the U.S. government should be to aid Mexico in accomplishing these goals.
Michael Gesas
Beverly Hills
::
With all of the talk about who is going to pay for the wall, there is practically no discussion of the fundamental question: Do we actually need a wall?
A 2015 study by the Pew Research Center concluded that 140,000 more Mexicans returned to Mexico than entered the U.S. from 2009-14. It is probable that we are going to spend up to $30 billion for a project we don't need.
And one must not be fooled by the various proposals such as a border tax to pay for the wall. The cost of any border tax will ultimately be paid by the people who buy the products (us) or the companies that import them, not the Mexican people.
Bernard Peltzie
South Pasadena
::
In your account of the cancellation by Pena Nieto of a planned meeting with Trump, it states that "Trump had his own, unique version of events."
If Trump were in the vicinity of the event horizon of a black hole, or if he were somehow subject to laws of physics different from those known to govern the universe, he might have "his own, unique version of events." This is not the case. What he does have are lies.
His statement that he and Pena Nieto mutually "agreed" to cancel their meeting is a lie. It is a failure of journalism and a disservice to the public not to label it as such.
Christopher John Smith
Los Angeles
--
Energy efficient, cash efficient
Re "A high price to pay," Opinion, Jan. 26
Paul Bledsoe, in documenting the already huge cost of climate change impacts in our nation, also notes climate denialists' concern about the economic costs of laws that aim to cut greenhouse gas emissions. But such laws can be very beneficial to the economy.
Consider the refrigerator. With federal energy-efficiency standards, modern refrigerators use only about 25% of the energy they used in 1975. Meanwhile, refrigerator purchase cost has actually dropped by a factor of more than four while average interior volumes have risen from 19 to 22 cubic feet.
Government estimates show that today's refrigerators save consumers about $20 billion a year in energy costs. At the same time they hugely reduce greenhouse gas emissions, for which they were indirectly responsible.
Just put on hold by Republicans are new efficiency standards for related products: portable air conditioners, freezers and walk-in coolers. It would be crazy not to apply these new standards.
Riley Newman
Irvine
--
Fraud that isn't
Re "Voter fraud, fact and myth," Jan. 26
Failure to remove a dead person from the voter registration roles is not fraud, regardless of how long that person has been dead. Only a vote cast in the name of a dead person constitutes fraud. Likewise, it is not fraud for someone to move and be registered in two places; only voting in both places is fraud.
Squirming to find a way out of his embarrassing voter fraud claim, President Trump is attempting a bait-and-switch, advertising massive fraud but serving us voter registration errors. Beware.
Ron Paulinski
Ventura
Caption: PHOTO: PRESIDENT TRUMP speaks at the Department of Homeland Security on Wednesday.; PHOTOGRAPHER:Pablo Martinez Monsivais Associated Press
Subject: Presidents; Voter registration; Voter fraud; Greenhouse gases; Emission standards; Emissions; Leadership; Political advertising
Location: California Mexico
People: Trump, Donald J
Company / organization: Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120
Identifier / keyword: Letters to the editor
Publication title: Los Angeles Times; Los Angeles, Calif.
Pages: A.17
Number of pages: 0
Publication year: 2017
Publication date: Jan 29, 2017
Section: Main News; Part A; Letters Desk
Publisher: Los Angeles Times Communications LLC
Place of publication: Los Angeles, Calif.
Country of publication: United States, Los Angeles, Calif.
Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN: 04583035
Source type: Newspapers
Language of publication: English
Document type: Letter To The Editor
ProQuest document ID: 1862561529
Document URL: https://search.proquest.com/docview/1862561529?accountid=14472
Copyright: (Copyright (c) 2017 Los Angeles Times)
Last updated: 2019-01-29
Database: Global Newsstream
