LETTERS; Normalizing Trump
Publication info: Los Angeles Times ; Los Angeles, Calif. [Los Angeles, Calif]30 Nov 2016: A.12.
ProQuest document link
Abstract: None available.
Links:
Full Text Finder
Full text:
Normalizing Trump
Re "Old habits carry over for Trump," news analysis, Nov. 28
I appreciated Cathleen Decker's thorough analysis of Donald Trump's behavior now that he is president-elect. But it buried what should have been the headline: the fact that he broadcast to the world the blatant and obvious lie that "millions of people ... voted illegally" in the election.
To describe such behavior merely as "unprecedented" or "non-presidential" is not only a gross understatement, it also fails to place it in its proper context: the basic norms of civic discourse on which democratic government relies. A leader who lies so casually cannot be trusted at all. His judgment must always be suspect, as his thinking appears unmoored from reality.
To present this fact as simply another example to be analyzed in trying to understand Trump's leadership style is to normalize it in a dangerous way. It is not editorializing or being partisan to headline the fact that the next leader of the free world has (once again) told a brazen lie.
John Miller
Irvine
::
If Trump has any evidence for his assertion that millions of people voted illegally in the election, let him bring it forth. Otherwise, he is a liar in a sense recognized by philosopher Immanuel Kant.
According to Kant, asserting as true what one believes to be false is not the only type of lie. One also lies in asserting as certain or well-founded what one realizes to be lacking in foundation. By this standard, Trump's assertion is a lie.
Either that, or Trump is incapable of distinguishing what he fancies to be true from what is supported by evidence, which is also a disturbing possibility.
James Van Cleve
Claremont
::
Not only does Trump lack the temperament and judgment to be president, but he also comes up short on maturity. In addition to all his other nonsense, now he informs us that because of voter fraud and people voting illegally, he easily could have won the popular vote.
Republicans selected to the electoral college need to think long and hard before voting for Trump and subjecting our nation to this inexperienced and dangerous man.
Ralph S. Brax
Lancaster
::
Trump tweeted, "In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally." Elsewhere in his most recent Twitter rant, he went on about vote recounts being a "scam" and a "waste of time and money."
One would think that if Trump thought he had actually won the popular vote, he would welcome a recount to find all the illegal votes. Why is he against a recount?
Lisa Ericsson Murphy
Pasadena
::
And here I was hoping Trump would have a personality transplant by now.
Barbara Carlton
El Cajon
--
What is unclear about 'illegal'?
Re "Immigrants fear a wider definition of 'criminal,' " Nov. 26
Perhaps coming from countries that have high corruption rates distorts the illegal immigrants' views on what is acceptable in our society. However, sneaking into a country, overstaying a visa, committing forgery or identity theft, using false documents, conducting a business without a license and not paying income taxes are all illegal activities.
Perpetrators try to justify themselves by saying they are doing it so they can work, but then they send billions of dollars a year to their home countries. How can people so easily dismiss their acts by saying no one is hurt by their illegal activities?
No matter how noble the intent, the end doesn't justify the means and I truly don't understand why everyone is so determined to shield illegal immigrants from our laws. Committing crimes is not normal in our society, and illegal immigrants shouldn't be a protected class. They are abusing our taxpayers.
Jan MacMichael
South Pasadena
::
I wept for Mayra Machado, a woman who was brought to the United States as a five-year-old and committed check forgery at the age of 18. She was punished and lived a crime-free life for 12 years, becoming a mother and a productive employee.
But a traffic stop upended her life, along with her children's, and she was put into detention a year ago.
My mother was also victimized by a check forger as she sank into dementia, but law enforcement refused to follow up or press charges when contacted. Our legal system refused to pursue this all-American predator of an old woman but ruined Machado's life and those of her children for a lesser crime.
Michele Zack
Altadena
--
The U.S. as a climate pariah
Re "It may soon be U.S. against the world on climate change," Nov. 27
The article on Donald Trump's scientifically indefensible position on climate change reminds me of when I was a child growing up in the eastern part of Los Angeles County in the 1950s. One of my chores was to burn the household trash in the backyard incinerator.
Ten years later, riding my bike through the streets of Claremont, I choked in smog that hid the San Gabriel Mountains only miles to the north.
Then came the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in 1970. The air began to clear, and municipal water pollution became a rarity. But progress stopped with George W. Bush's EPA.
With climate denier Myron Ebell likely to be put in charge of the EPA, Trump will again slam the brakes on climate action even as progress accelerates at local, state and global levels. Continued hardline resistance at the federal level makes America an extreme outlier.
Michael Segor
San Luis Obispo
::
This article describes the Paris global climate agreement as a "treaty." If that had been the case, it would have had to be submitted to the Senate for two-thirds approval to be binding in the U.S. That did not happen, and most believe that President Obama intentionally avoided that designation knowing he would not get that vote.
My suggestion is that Trump immediately submit the Paris accord (and the Iran nuclear deal) to the Senate for its advice and consent. Failing to get the super-majority vote surely would finally put to bed any further discussion of these two agreements.
This article implicitly maintains that there is a large majority of Americans who are concerned by climate change. In fact, a recent Pew Research Center report shows that this is not the case. According to Pew, the environment ranked 12th out of 14 issues for voters in 2016. Only 36% of Americans were found to be deeply concerned about climate change.
George A. Vandeman
Pacific Palisades
::
"Mainstream science"? Please tell me The Times is not introducing this phrase into the American English lexicon as though climate deniers have another version of science. There is one science, just like there is one math.
One more slip-up was the reference to climate denier Ebell as a "scholar," as if he comes to conclusions based on scientific consensus and the scientific method. I wish that were true.
An important lesson to everyone who believes there is only one science is that your vote is not enough. It's time to get active.
Bruce Tierney
Irvine
--
What Castro did and didn't do
Re "In Cuba, grief and uncertainty," Nov. 29
Can we please stop the fiction that the late Cuban leader Fidel Castro took away the rights of his people when he seized power in 1959? Cubans had no rights under Castro's predecessors. You cannot take something away from people that they never had in the first place.
What Castro did take away was the economically viable middle class that had been allowed in Cuba. Many Cubans had accepted the tradeoff of moderate prosperity in return for political obedience. Castro replaced that with the allegedly classless communist system, which in fact benefitted only the select few in the highest levels of the government and military and devastated the Cuban economy.
Many of those thousands of Cuban refugees arriving in the U.S. over the last 50 years under the guise of anti-communist political asylum were in fact economic refugees.
Tom Lockhart
Long Beach
::
A Castro, namely Raul Castro, who previously enforced Fidel's draconian rule, continues to rule that unfortunate island nation. There is no truth to "after Castro" until the last brother is in the ground.
Steve Reich
Oxnard
Illustration
Caption: PHOTO: "I WON the popular vote if you deduct the millions ... who voted illegally," Donald Trump alleged.; PHOTOGRAPHER:Saul Loeb AFP/Getty Images
People: Trump, Donald J
Identifier / keyword: Letters to the editor
Publication title: Los Angeles Times; Los Angeles, Calif.
Pages: A.12
Publication year: 2016
Publication date: Nov 30, 2016
Section: Main News; Part A; Letters Desk
Publisher: Los Angeles Times Communications LLC
Place of publication: Los Angeles, Calif.
Country of publication: United States, Los Angeles, Calif.
Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN: 04583035
Source type: Newspapers
Language of publication: English
Document type: News
ProQuest document ID: 1844532188
Document URL: https://search.proquest.com/docview/1844532188?accountid=14472
Copyright: (Copyright (c) 2016 Los Angeles Times)
Last updated: 2018-10-31
Database: Global Newsstream
