
Readers' vent
Newspaper January 30, 2017 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Section: News 810 Words
Page: P10A
Readers' vent
This is to Phil Kabler about his article. How can you vent an article on ADW about advance wage deposit wagering on the horse and dogs when you have been pushing to get rid of the dogs for year? A little hypocritical.

Shelley Moore Capito is going to fix health care for everybody in America. She needs to stick closer to home and work on getting Route 35 fixed for all the accidents that are happening.

How did Capito vote for banning federal funds for abortions?

I get tired of the negative comments in the Readers' Vent. On a brighter note I wish to congratulate WV and the United State of America. We have elected good leaders in the November election.

The last time we gave the Republican Party all of the power was in the 1920s and we had a recession. Remember. History usually repeats itself.

American Water is more guilty than Freedom Industries. As a company serving thousands of people they should have had a long standing disaster plan in place. They had to have known the nature of the business operating up river. It is called greed and complacency on their part. Shame on them.

The best sound in the world to me is to hear my garage door going up. Then I know that my husband is home safe.

Just how exactly is Trump limiting news media coverage? All he is doing is pushing back on the rough treatment that they have given him. The news media no longer has crown prince Obama around to worship.

Something should be done about the local cable companies high cost of their cable bill when there is nothing on worth watching.

It is increasing apparent that President Trump is paranoid. As evidence with his obsession with the inauguration crowd and voter fraud. Someone needs to insure him that he won the presidency.

I work and pay taxes and I for one expect to get what I pay for. Here in Greenbrier County and WV we have been shorted for some time. I am sure my tax dollars would be welcome in another state.

Latest liberal scare tactic. Tying Planned Parenthood to Medicaid and saying cuts are racist.

I do hope those employees that were fired by the new Secretary of State sue due to their illegal firing, they certainly have a case. Warner is not going to be a good Secretary of State. He and Morrisey should have a contest to see which one performs the worst for our state.

Emperor Trump has no clothes.

Trump has angered the Chinese. Now he has angered the Mexicans, who have been our friends and ally for 200 years. He is making "America Less Safe Again.

The Hypocrites! Trump's White House is using a private email server. Lock them up.

Big T says Mexico will pay for the wall through taxes on Mexican imports. So guess who's paying? That's right you'll pay an additional 30 percent on everything from Mexico. Now who's the idiot?

One thing Trump will accomplish is the unification of Congress. The Republicans and Democrats will have to work together to stop Trump's destruction of our democracy.

A venter commented today that the media spent the campaign season portraying Trump as a "fowl fiend. Was the venter too chicken to use a dictionary or was this considered too poultry to fool with?

Right after the flood, Clendenin was inundated with officials who said they were there to help. Kent Carper should leave his oak paneled room and go see how flood victims are living now, many still in tents or trailers. A tiny home is a palace compared to where they have been living and compared to where some lived before the flood.

Once again Mr Trump has shown how ignorant and arrogant he can be. His plan to tax all Mexican imports by 20 percent borders on insanity. Obviously, the Mexican Government will raise taxes on our exports by more than 20% in reprisal and thousands of American jobs will be lost as a result.

Expecting Mexico to pay for a wall that the U.S. wants in order to keep out illegal immigrants is like a property owner expecting his neighbor to pay for his new fence because he wants to keep out the neighbor's dogs which keep wandering into the property owner's yard.

Congressional Representative from Hawaii Tusli Gabbard should become the first woman president of the United States for her common-sense, realistic views on foreign policy.

I was in St. Albans yesterday and for the first time I felt fearful for my safety. I stopped at two convenience stores, at the first one there was a guy bumming for gas money and I felt very intimidated. I left there and went to another place and there was a guy standing at the corner of the building dealing drugs.

The East Germans learned the hard way that a wall does not work, now we here in the United States of Russia are going to learn the same lesson.
Copyright, 2017, Charleston Newspapers
