
READERS' Vent
Newspaper October 24, 2016 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Section: News 603 Words
Page: P6A
READERS' Vent
Does anyone know where you can get salt rising bread? I don't think any of the Wal-Marts carry it and I would like to find some place I can get some?

I see where we're getting another $1.47 million to put internet in vacant buildings and places that already have it, like they did last time with the $126 million grant.

Why in God's name would anyone seek the endorsement of Cecil Roberts? I would automatically vote for the opposition.

No one is handing Hillary Clinton the presidency. She has actually earned her way to run and serve in this office. She is not a criminal, she has not been charged. Hillary Clinton will make a wonderful president.

For a city that the mayor claims to be almost broke, they sure managed to find some mighty big raises for city managers not workers. You peons, suck it up.

So let me get this straight. A Trump supporter thinks that open trade, green energy and equal opportunity are bad things.

I've become convinced that Donald Trump is in cahoots with Putin and the Russians to destroy this country.

If we keep going with these endless wars in the Middle East we are eventually going to have to recreate the draft.

I think all the Social Security receipts should invest their $4 into solar panels.

This election has brought out the worst in people. The hate they are experiencing is within themselves. They blame others for everything that is wrong in their life. That is the easy way to excuse themselves. Take responsibility and do better.

Obama said there is no voter fraud in this country. That just shows you how out of touch this guy is.

I am a retired police officer and a Vietnam veteran. It really disappoints me that some police unions support Trump being that he has never supported police officers and he is a five-time draft dodger.

WV has the highest addiction rate in the nation. Patrick Morrisey has been in charge. It's time to let someone else try to help WV.

I can't believe people still support crooked Hillary after revelations that her campaign people paid agitators to cause fights at Trump rallies. People actually got hurt in Chicago. Even Nixon's Dirty Tricks squad never went that far.

Love how the $1.3 million "found" for rural broadband expansion will first be spent on a consultant to put together a plan to develop a plan to start a plan. Wonder which political crony will line his pockets with the money to be spent on the citizens?

Can people really think he will help them or our nation? This country is beginning to worry me.

Could people stop pretending that their morals or religion really play any part in their political choices?

Hillary will win nationally but will not win WV. It doesn't really matter because she had pledged to continue Obama's EPA policies which will be detrimental to WV.

Only in WV will people vote for someone who won't pay their taxes.

The very worst thing about this presidential election is not Donald Trump; it is the vast number of Americans who support such a mean spirited imbecile.

I see where UMWA president Cecil Roberts is backing Jim Justice. This is the same Roberts who backed Barack Obama twice and once said that coal miners were going to have to work closer with the EPA. Common sense now tells me I should now vote for Cole.

Thanks a lot Republicans. As a lifelong Independent, I usually have a pretty good choice of who to vote for president. This year you didn't even give me an option!

Express your opinion on any subject you wish. Not all comments are published. Call 304-348-1775 or email readersvent@wvgazettemail.com.
Copyright, 2016, Charleston Newspapers
