
READERS' Vent
Newspaper October 20, 2016 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Section: News 684 Words
Page: P3A
READERS' Vent
The Clintons are pulling out all the stops. Nothing but a bunch of liars. Anybody that would vote for Clinton you might has well vote for Hitler because that's what you're going to get.

Shelley Moore Capito has certainly shown her true colors. First rejecting Trump and then changing her mind and going back to him. Which is it? Does she want a person who wants to manhandle women, belittle women?

I hope the city of Dunbar can stop these four-wheelers running up Oak Street and Chestnut Street. They are drinking on these four-wheelers and running up and down these streets wide open. Can someone please do something?

Where are the coal jobs that Morrisey called himself saving?

There is finally proof that Bin Laden is dead. He registered as a democrat in Lincoln County yesterday.

If you so-called Christians need to forgive Trump for what he did 11 years ago, you without sin cast the first stone is what the Bible says. You have to have forgiveness in your heart for him and Hillary both.

The Republicans should stop paying taxes. It's been taxation without representation for eight years and looks like it's gonna be four more at least. We are being ignored. It's a liberal agenda tearing the country apart.

Since voter fraud is very rare. Thirty-one cases nationally since 2000. What is your agenda? It is to suppress minorities. The real problem is getting people to vote.

The caller who referred to the good things liberals have brought us may have hit the nail on the head. It's usually one group that gets and another pays for it.

Why do West Virginians think that carpetbag opportunists like Morrisey and Mooney are good for our state? Vote them out.

I can understand the city of Charleston is spending over a million dollars for pay raises for their employees. What I can't understand is them spending over a million dollars for a 1-mile bike path.

I just heard Mrs. Trump on TV saying her husband would be an unbelievable president. I think those words are very true. You can't believe a word he says.

I hope cigarette smokers don't forget that they can cause stroke. They can cause many diseases. You need to read the warning labels. Yes they can cause stroke.

Putnam County Sheriff's Department: Please watch for speeding traffic in the Poca High School school zone in the mornings.

I just went to the Teays Valley DMV when they opened and six of the eight windows were not occupied. I had to wait an hour and half. Whoever is the commissioner of the DMV needs to be fired.

According to Melania, Billy Bush made Trump say it.

If WV Power can afford a new video board for next season certainly they can afford to get the mascot uniform cleaned.

So. The City of Charleston didn't have enough money to pave streets. They did have enough money to hire a consultant who recommended pay raises and the city suddenly has money growing on trees.

Jim Justice coaching the kids' team is a PR stunt. If he wants to prove he's a decent human he'll pay his fines and taxes and he'll quit polluting the states where he operates.

Trump supporters and morals? What planet have you been on to think either party has morals? Hillary Clinton certainly has none!

The (unproven) theory seems to be that the Russians are trying to rig our election by showing that Hillary's operatives rigged the election.

We desperately need another route in and out of the Nitro Marketplace shopping center. Why not build a road behind the center connecting to Route 25 in Nitro?

It seems to me that the only thing Republicans and Democrats agree on is term limits. Wonder why we have never seen, or will ever see, a bill in Congress about that?

I'm still trying to figure out why a man is much better equipped than a woman to unclog a toilet, as someone recently said. There is, of course, a major physical difference between a man and a woman, but I fail to see how that fact would make a difference.

Express your opinion on any subject you wish. Not all comments are published. Call 304-348-1775 or email readersvent@wvgazettemail.com.
Copyright, 2016, Charleston Newspapers
