The Observer Forum
Newspaper October 23, 2016 | Charlotte Observer, The (NC)
Author: Charlotte Observer Contributors Section: News 665 Words
Page: 38A
The Observer Forum
Ross will be a pawn for the extreme left

In response to "Our choice for U.S. Senate: Deborah Ross" (Oct. 19 Observer Editorial):

Although not surprised, I was disappointed that you chose to endorse Deborah Ross rather than Richard Burr for U.S. Senate.

Richard has served the country and the state well.

Do not fool yourself by suggesting Deborah Ross will be an independent-minded senator.

What she will be is a highly liberal senator who will be a pawn for the extreme left Sen. Elizabeth Warren.

That will not sit well with North Carolinians, and what we don't need is another one-term senator.

Jim Beatty, Charlotte

Disappointed to see Wells appoint Mack

In response to "Can Charlotte's Mary Mack fix Wells Fargo's retail bank?" (Oct. 21):

Mary Mack, as per your article, was "heavily involved in efforts to cross-sell multiple products to customers."

This "cross-sell" policy is what led to the illegal actions by the bank when they opened accounts for unknowing customers without their permission.

So a person associated with this is going to be the person who fixes it?

This is Wells Fargo's way of saying that, as in the past, all that matters are profits.

Steve Jones, Charlotte

OK with me if Trump waits to accept a loss

I don't have a problem with Donald Trump stopping short of saying he would accept the results of the presidential election.

He shouldn't accept a loss if it's not a fair election. Al Gore didn't accept his loss for weeks. He took the 2000 election all the way to the Supreme Court before eventually conceding.

As long as thousands of dead people don't make their way to the polls and there is no evidence of systematic voter fraud, I'm confident Trump will accept the results should he lose.

Tripp Cherry, Matthews

It's democracy under siege with Trump

Many voters see little if any difference between the two major party candidates. One is overtly repugnant; the other is covertly repugnant.

But the reality is one candidate has openly admitted to accepting the outcome of the 2016 presidential election.

The concession is the cornerstone of our democracy. It is not easy but expected, and shows true maturity to the greater good of service towards nation over self.

Even in the 2000 election, Al Gore conceded to George Bush at the beginning. Gore knew to accept what was before him and then later challenge it.

Benjamin Cook, Charlotte

Berger's wrong about Medicaid expansion

In response to "What to do about N.C.'s uninsured?" (Oct. 16):

The writer is a Legal Services of Southern Piedmont attorney.

N.C. Senate leader Phil Berger suggests Medicaid expansion would only benefit single young men who refuse to work.

This couldn't be further from the truth.

Medicaid expansion would provide an essential safety net for N.C.'s working poor.

Research shows a majority of adults in the coverage gap are employed. A single parent working 40 hours a week at minimum wage without insurance falls into the coverage gap.

Medicaid expansion also helps people get back on their feet after a setback.

Had Tim Messenger had access to Medicaid when he lost his job, he would still have his eyesight and could have spent the past two years applying for jobs instead of piecing together care while his condition worsened.

Madison Hardee, Charlotte

Trade imbalance needs to be fixed

In response to "Don't bash free trade without reading this" (Oct. 19 Opinion):

I like Wayne Cooper and respect his opinion, but he seems to have forgotten the tens of thousands of jobs lost in this state alone in the textile and furniture industries in the past 20 years.

He also seem to have forgotten the massive imbalance of trade we have in the U.S. - we import so much more than we export.

Free trade sounds great, but the reality is that we have lost our manufacturing capacity and the structure that goes with that.

I am not against free trade, but we need a quota system so that our manufacturers are not wiped out.

Norman Jameson, Charlotte
Copyright (c) 2016 The Charlotte Observer

