The Observer Forum
Newspaper November 20, 2016 | Charlotte Observer, The (NC)
Author: Charlotte Observer Contributors Section: News 644 Words
Page: 42A
The Observer Forum
Both parties have serious work to do

The Democratic Party forgot who it has historically represented, working-class Americans.

And working-class Americans don't navigate the English language in politically correct terms, nor do they concern themselves with refugees half way around the world when they don't have enough money to repair their cars at home.

That's why this Democrat turned his back on the Democratic Party.

On the other hand, not being a "true Republican" probably helped Donald Trump get elected because Republicans have historically never looked out for the middle class.

This election was a kick in the butt to both parties. Democrats need to remember Harry Truman, and Republicans need to redefine who and what they stand for.

Michael Mezquida, Charlotte

Nothing wrong with Kushner appointment

President-elect Donald Trump is being criticized for considering son-in-law Jared Kushner for a position in his administration.

President Kennedy chose his brother Robert as Attorney General, a powerful position in a presidential administration. When Bill Clinton was president he appointed his wife to chair his health care task force.

Robert Kennedy was a blood relative. Jared Kushner is only related to Trump by marriage.

Philip Van Hoy, Charlotte

Voters didn't elect Jared Kushner

So Donald Trump does not feel capable of doing his job without the assistance of his family, especially his son-in-law?

Did America vote for his son-in-law? Has this country suddenly gotten a ready-made royal family?

We should be protesting putting presidential power into the hands of people who were not selected in this election!

How ridiculous!

Yolande Steger, Matthews

Christian vote for Trump disheartening

Donald Trump's campaign and election caused the world to think our shining city on the hill has slipped into a dark crevice.

The world view of us is as important to our success and security as our military, financial and industrial strengths.

The "Christian" right rallied to his hate-filled, vulgar speeches. Except the Pope, no major Christian leader spoke out strongly against these.

Their faith now seems as bankrupt as their anointed leader's businesses.

Jerry Berne, Charlotte

McCrory's focus on votes is misplaced

In response to "Contested results delay final outcome of election" (Nov. 18):

Odd that Gov. Pat McCrory's campaign manager calls it voter fraud when a handful of people are forced to vote provisional ballots because they can't be found in the voter records.

That indicates the system is working.

Yet, McCrory doesn't seem to question why more than 2,000 people who registered to vote at DMV, where IDs are issued, did not show up on the voter rolls.

That indicates the system at DMV isn't working.

Robin Drechsel, Charlotte

Oppose GOP effort to pack N.C. court

Incumbent Justice Robert Edmunds was soundly defeated by Justice-elect Michael Morgan.

Yet, in a blatant assault on democracy, state Republicans are considering flipping a voter-determined Democratic majority by packing the court with their own governor-appointed justices during an upcoming Hurricane Matthew special session.

Any such action would be an overreach by Republicans, as well as in direct defiance of the voters, and is therefore unacceptable.

GOP lawmakers like John Bradford, who represents my district, should publicly oppose this plan, which directly undermines the choice N.C. voters have made.

Ralph Schaer, Huntersville

On HB2, media shares responsibility

In response to "Emails: CoStar board pushed back over HB2, costing 732 jobs" (Nov. 17):

CoStar was re-evaluating Charlotte as the choice "due to all of the press and chatter over HB2."

Opposition to HB2 should have been focused on working behind the scenes to compromise with legislators or working publicly to influence the hearts and minds of the electorate.

Instead, some HB2 opponents sought to exert economic pressure on North Carolina, and national and local media assisted by keeping HB2 on the front page.

That strategy may ultimately result in the repeal of HB2, but the primary fruits so far are job, event, and convention losses.

Jordan Abshire, Charlotte
Copyright (c) 2016 The Charlotte Observer

