
READERS' Vent
Newspaper October 17, 2016 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Section: News 644 Words
Page: P7A
READERS' Vent
To the venter who is questioning Hillary Clinton's health: No one can tell when a person will be sick or will die. Only God knows that. You should have a better understanding of health.

I am highly offended to think that President Obama wants millions of dollars to send men to Mars by the year 2020. People in the south are without homes and our roads and our bridges need repairs. It just shows how our government puts wants above needs.

It doesn't matter how much good you have done, if you are a decent hardworking person and run for political office, the opposite party will persecute you. They will make people think you are not a decent person.

Pence grants grace to Trump. His misdeeds should be forgotten. Democrats should not apply. They're in a cursed party.

To all voters: If you are voting for Hillary Clinton because she is a woman, that's something to reconsider. She will be representing all American women, young and old. I think we have many more acceptable, brighter women. I would pass on this election and start promoting a woman we can respect in 2020.

I would like to know what the state of West Virginia plans to do to prevent voter fraud.

If people mail their defective Samsung phones back won't we have fires at post offices and on planes?

For 50 years I voted solid Democrat. This year I plan to vote for Trump, but alas the Republicans don't like him.

Wishes do come true. I wished the DOH would finally fix the speed bump in front of Budget Tapes and Records in Kanawha City and they did. Now I wish they would fix the massive speed bump at the foot of the Washington Street Bridge crossing the Elk River.

Does anybody not know what's going on about this election?

This election seems to hinge on who voters dislike least, not on which candidate they truly support and feel can do a good job for this country. How did we as a nation allow this to happen? We have no one to blame except ourselves.

Is America a great country or what? For president this year we have a choice between an egotistical sleaze ball and a criminal facing indictment for influence peddling.

Even though the Nitro Church of Christ is closing its clothing closet, the Washington Street Church of Christ in St. Albans is still giving away clothing.

Hillary pulled Al Gore out of the closet to speak on climate change. If you are a coal miner I guess she's gonna train you to make a windmill. Solar panels will work wonders in the hollows of W.Va. where you only see the sun a few hours a day.

The word "liberals" is often spoken with scorn. We need to remember all the good things so-called liberals have brought us and reject the disparaging of liberals.

Is there any communications between the different departments in the DOH? I know you got the plans pending the road lines probably weeks or months in advance. Why in the world does North Charleston wait until after the lines are painted do they wait to patch the road on West Washington Street?

If Charlotte Pritt is running for governor why does she not get out and campaign. She has won the democratic nomination in the past. That tells you maybe if she did some campaigning she might do it again. What we have now to look at, it might have to be left blank on my ballot.

Any president that tries to shut down WV will never be WV's president.

I agree wholeheartedly that Steel of WV should get ALL documents related to he hospital merger in Huntington. Regardless of what he, the FTC and WV healthcare regulators say, those records are FOIA eligible documents. Morrisey has a track record of secrecy and deceit regarding healthcare lawsuits

Express your opinion on any subject you wish. Not all comments are published. Call 304-348-1775 or email readersvent@wvgazettemail.com.
Copyright, 2016, Charleston Newspapers
