
OP/ED and LETTERS
Newspaper November 3, 2016 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Section: Opinion 649 Words
Page: P4A
OP/ED and LETTERS
Remember, you don't need an ID to vote

Eli Baumwell

We've heard a lot this season about "rigged elections and voter fraud. Unfortunately, what is not being reported is how simple confusion can suppress votes. A prime example is the Voter ID law passed last winter. Some voters who do not think they have adequate ID may not attempt to vote. However, voters need to be aware that the Voter ID Law does not go into effect until 2017.

This year, the vast majority of voters will not be required to show an ID in order to vote. Only voters who are voting for the first time, and did not show ID when they registered will need to show ID to vote. Any other attempts to force someone to show ID or to prohibit someone from voting because of lack of ID should be reported to the Secretary of State or to organizations serving as legal observers.

Sometimes, when voters get to their polling place they are told they are not registered to vote. This can happen for a variety of reasons. The important thing to remember is that if someone has registered to vote, they can still vote even if their information cannot be found at the polling place. If you believe you have registered to vote and polling officials won't let you vote by regular ballot, you have an absolute right to cast a provisional ballot. After the election, officials will go back to determine if you were registered to vote. If you were, your provisional ballot will be counted. Voters can follow their provisional ballot through an online tracking system to ensure that their vote gets counted.

Other issues may come up as well. Voters should make sure they are aware of their rights by reviewing information available online (acluwv.org/2016-voter-resources). If you encounter something unusual at your polling place, you should report it to the elections officials. If they do not listen, or are the problem, they should be reported to the Secretary of the State and a non-partisan organization, such as the ACLU. On Election Day, the ACLU of West Virginia will have a special hotline for people to report problems at the polls: 304-345-9262.

Voting is the most fundamental right in our democracy. Don't let fear or misinformation interfere with your exercise of that right.

Eli Baumwell is policy director of the ACLU of West Virginia.

To trim budget, get rid of small districts

Editor:

Start at the top to trim the budget. Lawmakers need to look at themselves if they are interested in trimming the budget in future years.

Why do we even have such small Districts - 5, 8, 3, 13 and 16? The district map on the front page Oct. 23, clearly shows how these small districts could be absorbed by others. Also, why are so many counties cut in half or just have a small sliver in another district? Shouldn't everyone in the same county be represented by the same state senator? Makes one think that these district lines where drawn up to fit a party's need for votes.

Seems like having all districts made up of full counties and getting rid of these small districts would be best for the voters of West Virginia.

James Hackett

Red House

More people should try walking with God

Editor:

Being 89 years "young, I have had health issues, but feel fine now. I am walking four blocks daily. If you don't use it, you lose "it.

I love to be outside, to see the wonderful, beautiful world the Lord has given us.

I became a cadet nurse in 1945 at Charleston General Hospital because I love people.

While walking, I talk and laugh with everyone.

On my first day of walking, my daughter received four concerned calls about my safety, about my walking alone.

They need not fear, because I am walking with God.

I am not alone.

More people should try it.

Mary Alice Carpenter

Dunbar
Copyright, 2016, Charleston Newspapers
