The Observer Forum
Newspaper November 22, 2016 | Charlotte Observer, The (NC)
Author: Charlotte Observer Contributors Section: News 679 Words
Page: 13A
The Observer Forum
Fruitless hunt for voter fraud must end

In response to "McCrory team: Election protests filed in 12 counties" (Nov. 16):

Gov. Pat McCrory has gone looking for nonexistent voter fraud, just as N.C. legislators have tried to legislate to prevent nonexistent fraud.

The natural fear one has of all this unnecessary looking and misdirected legislating is that we may be led to suspect that voter fraud is alive and well, when it really isn't.

Maybe once McCrory's hunt ends "fraudless," we can rest assured that voting in North Carolina is honest and true.

Dave Molinaro, Charlotte

Let's not forget hate Dems used to divide

In response to "Trump blueprint: appeal to haters" (Nov. 17 Forum):

Forum writer Floyd Wisner overlooks the long history of liberals accusing anyone who doesn't agree with them of being Islamophobic, xenophobic, homophobic, etc.

Hillary Clinton's "basket of deplorables" description of Trump supporters was intended to demean and divide.

Maybe she was just following in the footsteps of President Obama, who ostracized people who "cling to guns or religion."

Clinton assumed an easy election and, therefore, thought nothing of alienating those she deemed beneath her political class.

How did that work out for her?

Drew Waterbury, Charlotte

Comey's interference must be investigated

Why is no one calling for holding FBI director James Comey responsible for interference in the election process?

He injured the Democrats very much and he held the investigation open until it would do the most damage.

He must be punished.

Dalton Medford, Granite Falls

A gracious hand-off from the Democrats

President-elect Donald Trump is fortunate that the Democrats are in office for the transition. President Obama, Hillary Clinton and Nancy Pelosi were all very gracious in their offers of assistance and congratulations.

Unlike Sen. Mitch McConnell, they did not threaten to make Trump a one-term president and impede almost everything he has tried to do.

Now, it appears the Republicans are going to adopt infrastructure improvements that Obama proposed seven years ago.

Think how many people could have been employed these past seven years!

Barbara Scott, Charlotte

Forget party, you now represent all of us

Whether you were re-elected or newly elected, please remember that you are our elected representative. You have a responsibility to vote as we in the majority desire.

Your party leadership is secondary to "We the people." Forget that at your political peril.

Douglas Sherrow, Mint Hill

So proud of Garinger students who spoke

In response to "Amid debate, students speak up for their future" (Nov. 20):

The writer is a CMS Board member.

It was with immense pleasure that I read Ann Doss Helms' article about the thoughtful, analytic Garinger High School students who spoke before the Board of Education.

It typifies the high level of expectations I have seen the principal and teachers hold for all students.

Students excel when rigor and relevant real-world applications are the norm. Especially important: These students are learning to speak their minds, even if their voice shakes. I am so proud of them.

Ruby M. Jones, Charlotte

Let all employees off on Thanksgiving Day

I recently saw a sign at a Burger King restaurant that indicated it would be open 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. Thanksgiving Day. It made me wonder if the corporate office will also be open and corporate officers working that day.

Corporations of America, can you not afford to let your front-line employees take one day off to be with their families?

I bet if you did, you would be included in their Thanksgiving Day prayers, and not their curses.

Gregory Hurt, Charlotte

Story of ASU grad renewed my hope

In response to "Daughter takes college graduation to dying mom" (Nov. 19):

Thank you for running the heart-warming story about the ASU administrators who came to Charlotte to present a graduating senior her degree so her dying mother could see her graduate.

Thanks also to administrators who drove from Boone to make a dying woman's wish come true.

With all the bad news in the paper, this was a moving piece that showed caring for others is still alive and well in this country.

Augie E. Beasley, Charlotte
Copyright (c) 2016 The Charlotte Observer

