
READERS' Vent
Newspaper October 31, 2016 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Section: News 641 Words
Page: P9A
READERS' Vent
Please change these stupid gun laws. Our young people feel that they must carry guns just to protect themselves now. What used to be a little brawl or a bloody lip now someone is shot to death? Think about it.

If all they do is count the electoral votes, why do the citizens of the United States have to vote? We go to the polls, which means absolutely nothing. I am sure if they counted our votes the results would be totally different.

Who is Michelle Obama? Other than nonsense, I have not heard her say anything about policy or anything. Who is she?

Our ignorant Legislature wants trained, skilled, drug-tested union construction workers to work alongside those who are not for less pay and little to no benefits. Vote Bill Cole and Mitch Carmichael out.

The proposal to eliminate curbside recycling of plastics and aluminum is ludicrous. And to expect hundreds or thousands of our citizens to take these same items to for-profit recycling centers will increase our carbon footprint, not reduce it. Crazy.

My rule of thumb. Vote the opposite who the Gazette endorses.

I laugh at all the Justice/Jobs signs. Somebody should go talk to those who lost jobs and money working with Justice.

Will voting for Hillary teach your kids it's OK to lie, steal, harass and threaten those who might report the truth?

Too big to fail is too big to prosecute is too big to exist.

It would be interesting to know how our media would react to emails posted on Wikileaks that exposed wrongdoing by Donald Trump.

To the venter about the election compared to driving an automatic transmission car: Thank God I've got a 5-speed.

Regarding Mooney and Morrisey: Fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me.

Veteran FBI agents say FBI Director James Comey has permanently damaged the bureau's reputation for uncompromising investigations with his cowardly' whitewash of & Clinton's mishandling of classified information, I agree.

The American people are sick and tired of there being one set of rules for politicians and another set for the rest of us. If Donald Trump is beating Hillary, the government and the press at their own game, more power to him!

Hope all you Trump supporters have heard by now that his next plan is to start his own network. Guarantee you it will have more false information than Fox.

This suit against WV Paving relating to overcharging should also look into the quality of the asphalt they were providing. I think we got some inferior product to go along with price gouging.

There are several politicians not good for W.Va. but Morrisey, Trump and Cole top the list.

Hillary has failed to grasp that more than half of this country has a visceral hatred of her. Any administration of hers will meet unparalleled resistance and defiance.

Natalie Tennant said voter fraud is not that of a big problem. It only took me a few minutes to search the internet to prove that she is out of touch. I found there are a number of current investigations underway and reports of malfunctioning voting machines in Texas. It's very real.

We have received several of the Don Blankenship mailings. I have thought of leaving them in a public restroom as a public service. Unfortunately with the slick paper it even could not be used for that.

Once again, national preference polls mean nothing in a presidential election. What counts is what states you win, not by how much you win them. It is possible to lose 38 of the 50 states, the popular vote, and still win the presidency.

"Trump is rapidly become a synonym for sociopath.

Obama is the most likable and nicest president since Jimmy Carter. I am sure we all will miss him regardless who wins next.

Express your opinion on any subject you wish. Not all comments are published. Call 304-348-1775 or email readersvent@wvgazettemail.com.
Copyright, 2016, Charleston Newspapers
