The Open Forum 
November 13, 2016 | Denver Post, The (CO) 
Section: PERSPECT 
1573 Words 
Page: 2D 
OpenURL 
Link 
Donald Trump has been elected president. The republic still stands. The apocalypse has not arrived. And Trump has said he wants to be president for all Americans. 
In order to do this, Trump will have to disappoint some of his most fervent supporters. This will mean that Hillary Clinton will not go to jail. The wall will not be built. Eleven million undocumented workers/illegal immigrants will not be rounded up and deported. 
The saving grace is that Trump's victory was achieved without the help of the Republican establishment and, as a result, he is quite literally his own man. It would be unique for a candidate to pivot to the center after an election, but Trump is beholden to none and, as a result, is uniquely positioned to do so. 
On Jan. 20, 2017, Donald Trump will become the 45th president of the United States and we will be destined to live in interesting times. 
Guy Wroble, Denver 
*** 
I didn't sleep well Tuesday night. I'm sure many others didn't either. But now is a time for contemplation and reflection. Our great country will be OK. We will all be OK. But we all have a responsibility toward making it so. I want to urge all those who may not be happy with the results of the presidential election to follow the advice of our magnificent first lady. Let's go high. We've lived through eight years of disrespect for the president of the United States, and the office that he holds. Let's make sure this doesn't continue for another four years. The people of the United States have spoken, and while we might not like the result, maybe we can lead toward a better future by giving the office the respect it deserves, and more importantly, giving the Americans who chose our president the respect they deserve. 
Craig Hebrink, Broomfield 
*** 
I've heard Donald Trump's victory described as the rejection election. And certainly, Trump voters were disillusioned and rejected the direction the country has taken. But I suspect it was more than that. That the media was caught off guard by Trump's victory and that the pollsters failed to see this coming tells me that Trump supporters distrusted the system. They didn't cooperate with them for good reason. Newspapers and television as a whole are clearly biased. It's obvious when you consider the few Republicans in the media, the large amount donated by journalists to Hillary Clinton, the lopsided debate questioning, higher negative coverage for Trump, and the cooperation between the press and the Clinton campaign. I thought it was unfair, and I wonder how many people became Trump supporters because of this unfair treatment. 
Bob Mesenbrink, Arvada 
*** 
The French author Anatole France (1844-1924) is credited with the observation: "If 50 million people believe a foolish thing, it is still a foolish thing." I recall the statement because 59 million people believing foolish things elected Donald Trump president. It'll be painful for them and for 60 million other voters to endure not only an incompetent president and his appointees but also yet another four years of Republican corruption and mismanagement of the federal government, not to mention the further erosion of ordinary people's access to justice and to economic opportunity --and perhaps access to the truth. Oversized, corrupt government? Powerful liberals? A criminal Hillary Clinton? Welfare corrupting the poor? Voter fraud? Easy retrieval of lost jobs? And mass deportations? Not to mention white supremacy and ethnic hatred? Myths. Foolish things. 
Nietzsche said: "Distrust all in whom the impulse to punish is powerful." 
Dan Brickley, Littleton 
*** 
The true genius of the Republican Party has always been its ability to persuade the average American to vote against his or her own self-interest in favor of those of the wealthy class. That, coupled with the persistent tendency of the Republicans to do a superior job of circling the wagons and winning elections even if the majority of the country disagrees with their arguments, has come to roost in spades this time around. I suppose their slogan should have been "Win One for the Groper." 
Fasten your seat belts, America. We are beginning a trip back to a non-existent era that could bring our nation to much lower status in the world. I hope I am wrong. 
Jim Drevescraft, Nederland 
*** 
Donald Trump's voters say they elected him as an outsider because they felt their plight was being ignored, yet the first thing he does is surround himself with the same insiders who, 10 years ago, were spearheading the policies that crashed our economy and caused people to lose their homes and their livelihoods in the first place. Rural Americans, you should know the old cliche better than the rest of us, 
but I fear we will all reap what you have just sown. 
Lynne Forrester, Littleton 
*** 
Donald Trump won the presidential election because he was politically incorrect. Most Americans would agree that some of the things he said during the primaries were politically incorrect. He was probably the only one who could have said them, because he's a billionaire, his own boss and couldn't be fired. Although he went too far with some of his comments, we as a nation have gone too far in the other direction. Sensitive minorities are becoming more powerful than majorities; sensitivity has taken over common sense. We can't tell a joke without offending someone. A man at work can't touch a woman without the possibility of being accused of sexual harassment. Children at school learn that participating is more important than winning. 
Sixty million Americans are tired of political correctness and said so at the polls. 
Wayne Dellinger, Westminster 
*** 
We liberals, progressives and Democrats are stunned by the utter renunciation of our beliefs with the election of Donald Trump. In the election's wake, there's been hand-wringing and fear-mongering. It's to be expected that Obamacare will vanish, banking regulations will be rolled back, corporate taxes slashed, fossil fuel will be in, renewable energy out(lawed), gay marriage (the ominous threat to no one) will be re-examined, women's rights will be shelved, minorities will be targeted, and we'll again see "boots on the ground" in the Middle East. 
Grim stuff, but I offer a different perspective. 
The Republican Party holds a majority of the governorships and apparently controls the FBI. Soon, they will have the White House, Congress and the Supreme Court. These guys got the whole enchilada. However, as the saying goes, with great power comes great responsibility. Between January and the midterm election in 2018, whatever happens rests squarely on the GOP's shoulders. 
Douglas Hawk, Denver 
*** 
As a Jefferson County retired teacher who taught at an elementary school a few miles from Columbine High School, I take personally the defeat of Hillary Clinton and the election of Donald Trump for president. Jefferson County schools made it our mission to teach children to be respectful and caring to one another, to turn from negative and bullying behavior, and to learn conflict resolution skills. What does a Trump presidency teach our children? 
Sharon Whelan, Lakewood 
*** 
My progressive friends are acting out. How could enough voters elect Donald Trump, defying the expectations of many pollsters and pundits? The most likely explanation is that for the past eight years, many in politics, academia and social media whose political philosophy leans left have legitimized public hatred for those with whom they disagree. 
The word "hate" itself has taken on an Orwellian meaning, allowing progressives to cloak themselves in bulletproof virtue while enthusiastically attacking their opponents with a degree of vitriol unlike anything since World War II propaganda. And like using a shotgun when a pellet gun might suffice, they often damn their antagonists with multiple labels: Racist. Misogynist. Homophobe. Islamophobe. Xenophobe. The enemy is an immutable troglodyte, unworthy of debate or even civil discourse. 
I kindly ask my progressive friends to treat their fellow Americans with whom they disagree with the same degree of deference and respect that they expect of all toward diverse peoples. 
Donald Gallo, Golden 
*** 
The unprecedented protests against Donald Trump's election are the unsurprising result of his divisive campaign. His highly inflammatory language exposed and exacerbated deep divisions in America. Those divisions need to be aired and addressed, but Trump's means of doing so were counterproductive. While he placated his faithful, he alienated the other half of the country. His insincere plea now that we should all come together ring hollow and false and will not heal the wounds he has poured salt upon. Beyond that, Trump lost the popular vote. More people voted against him than for him. If Trump and his newfound Republican friends (Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell) think they have a mandate to take this country hard to the right, they'd better think again. They have no mandate. 
John Helfrich, Lakewood 
*** 
Democrats who protest against Donald Trump's recent electoral victory show a lack of respect for the entire democratic process and are an embarrassment to democracy in America. Mr. Trump won by means of free and fair elections, no differently than any one of his predecessors before. Now the world watches as the peaceful left who now act not so peacefully burn Trump effigies, set fires, yell obscenities, burn American flags, vandalize stores, wound police officers, and come under police arrest. 
Though many Americans believe that Canada is a safe haven for Democrats to move to under a Trump presidency, as a Canadian I want to say to you that we do not want or need you. This type of behavior that is currently being exercised by many on the left has no place in Canada. 
Stuart Lyons, Dieppe, New Brunswick, Canada 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Denver Post Corp. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'The Open Forum', Denver Post, The (online), 13 Nov 2016 2D http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160B065AC6329028 
