Solving Voter Fraud -A Plea To The Electoral College -Election Irregularities Abound -Surely We Wouldn't Have Voted To Limit Speech 
December 8, 2016 | Hartford Courant, The (CT) 
Section: Opinion 
702 Words 
Page: 10A 
OpenURL 
Link 
Solving Voter Fraud 
As soon as a new justice of the U.S. Supreme Court is appointed and confirmed, Congress should require that all voter rolls be expunged, that all new citizenship-required, verified registrations produce a voter ID card with photo, computer chip and thumbprint, that in-person registration be required, even if the registrars have to personally visit the applicants with the necessary processing equipment and paperwork, and that early voting for national elections be banned, except for "justifiable" absentee ballots. Improper voting and ancillary fraud is already a crime and should be strictly enforced. 
These requirements and procedures should eliminate the criticism and whining from the Republicans and Democrats by addressing all concerned issues about voting and voting chicanery as well as provide for an accurate and more valid election outcome. Voting is too precious a right and responsibility to be threatened by fraud, and security screening for common employment and specialized occupations is already employing some of these procedures. Is applying for a job more critically important than selecting governmental leadership? Of course, it would be interesting to review what objections those who deny voter fraud exists can conjure, and how voting trends change after the enactment of these requirements. 
Andrew Brandt, Enfield 
A Plea To The Electoral College 
Electoral College voters must think twice before casting their votes in December. 
This president-elect has pushed the envelope, to say the least. It seems he doesn't care about pushing the envelope, but campaigning is over. The time for him and those who elected him to sober up is now. I would say what he said about freedom of speech is the last straw, but it seems like there is no last straw for this man. To say that burning the American flag should be illegal should truly be a game-changer for the Electoral College. 
So I beg -yes, beg -the Electoral College voters, to the degree the law allows, to think seriously about their votes. If the law in any voter's state does not allow that person to freely vote, then he or she should do the right thing and publicly decline the position. 
I truly don't believe that this country can stand for this man to be president without a metamorphosis unseen in human history. 
Vincent Curcuru, Simsbury 
Election Irregularities Abound 
I do not agree that the Electoral College is more fair than direct elections [Nov. 22, letter, "Says Electoral College More Fair"]. Part of the reason for its adoption was to make sure slave-owning states would have more of a voice. Donald Trump was not democratically elected since he did not receive a majority or even a plurality of votes. In fact, Hillary Clinton received more than 2.6 million votes more than Trump -that's more than four times the population of Wyoming. 
Add to that unfairness the gutting of the Voting Rights Act by a recent Supreme Court decision. States with Republican governors immediately set about restricting voting rights by creating more rules about what kind of IDs were needed to vote, closing precincts in minority communities, cutting down early voting hours, etc. 
In addition, this election was influenced by Russians hacking Democratic National Committee emails, a serious issue that should be investigated thoroughly. And of course, FBI Director James Comey was quite detrimental to Clinton's campaign by needlessly making pronouncements when there wasn't any new news. 
There were plenty of irregularities with this past election. Not just the archaic Electoral College, which should be relegated to the annals of election history. 
Esther S. McKone, Avon 
Surely We Wouldn't Have Voted To Limit Speech 
I am starting to believe that Donald Trump was right -the election must have been rigged. What else would explain a result in which people would have voted to take away our fundamental rights to communicate and be communicated to by a free press? 
Mr. Trump, who continues to refuse to hold a press conference, who barred some major news outlets from his campaign and who now apparently rejects long-protected Constitutional rights of dissent, likes to communicate through Twitter. But he would have us lose our citizenship or be jailed for strongly expressing dissent through symbolic communication. 
Could a strong leader really be so afraid of dissent? Could a strong democratic nation really vote for such undemocratic values? The election must have been rigged. 
Harvey Jassem, Canton 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Hartford Courant Co. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Solving Voter Fraud A Plea To The Electoral College Election Irregularities Abound Surely We Wouldn't Have Voted To Limit Speech', Hartford Courant, The (online), 8 Dec 2016 10A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16124EF20B2DD4E8 
