letters -Early Voting Works -Electoral Votes By Percentage -How To Fix The Electoral College -Electoral College For Governor? 
December 24, 2016 | Hartford Courant, The (CT) 
Section: Opinion 
639 Words 
Page: 7A 
OpenURL 
Link 
Early Voting Works 
Connecticut should join the 34 other states in this country that allow early voting, and I applaud the resolution by state Rep. William Tong, D-Stamford, to introduce a bill in the next legislative session [Dec. 19, courant.com, "Rep. Tong Says He'll Introduce Early Voting Bill"]. 
Democracy is built on free, fair and accessible elections, and modernizing our voting process will allow more Connecticut voters access and flexibility in voting. It would reduce long lines on Election Day and allow for early identification and correction of registration errors or glitches. Although Connecticut does allow voting by absentee ballot, the process and restrictions do not adequately remove the obstacles of voting on a single day that many voters face. 
Opponents claim that early voting increases voter fraud or "double-voting." Multiple statewide government inquiries, national news outlet investigations and court rulings all find that there is not widespread in-person voter fraud nationally or in states with early voting. The Brennan Center for Justice, in their report "The Truth About Voter Fraud," says that "most reported incidents of voter fraud are actually traceable to other sources, such as clerical errors or bad data matching practices." 
This shouldn't be a partisan issue. Enhancing voter participation only strengthens our democracy. 
Lisa Kelly, Guilford 
Electoral Votes By Percentage 
Although I agree that winner-take-all for a state's electoral votes is wrong, I believe that allocating electoral votes based on who won congressional districts would be worse because of political gerrymandering. 
Congressional district allocation in this past election would have given Donald Trump a larger margin of victory than the current system. 
Take Wisconsin, with 10 electoral votes. A Democrat now could win all electoral votes by winning big in Milwaukee and losing everywhere else. If electoral votes were allocated by district and the state's two electoral votes corresponding to its senators were awarded to the popular vote winner, the overall loser in the state would have a 7-3 advantage in electoral votes. 
A better system would allocate electoral votes based on percentage of votes received. A candidate would receive a percentage of that state's electoral votes that is closest to that candidate's popular vote percentage. Any unallocated electoral votes will be given to the popular vote winner. 
If this method had been used in this past election, Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump would each have received 268 electoral votes. 
If the Electoral College were done away with in its entirety, then individual states would lose their voice in the election process. 
Bruce Lucas, West Hartford 
How To Fix The Electoral College 
Smug winners; sore losers. As a blue-state loser, I suggest we keep the Electoral College but also reform it. It serves as a brake in case of a major problem, such as the death of a candidate or the discovery of high crimes. 
Each state's number of electors should be the same as their number of seats in the House of Representatives. Remove Senate representation as a factor. Then, each Electoral College vote would be determined by how each House district voted, not winner-take-all. Such a reform would be closer to election by popular vote, but still keep the Electoral College as a safety device. 
John J. Murphy III, Middletown 
Electoral College For Governor? 
With apologies to Jonathan Swift, I offer a modest proposal for not getting rid of the Electoral College, but expanding it. 
Isn't it absurd that we elect our governors by popular vote in Connecticut? What an outrage that gubernatorial candidates tend to campaign in parts of our state where there are actually more voters. 
Common sense suggests we need a Connecticut Electoral College for all statewide elections to arbitrarily boost the voting power of places like Ashford and Bridgewater, so the voices of these "real Americans" are not drowned out by elitists and minorities in Hartford and New Haven. 
Once and for all, let us come together and end the ghastly tyranny of "one person, one vote." 
Aaron Goode, New Haven 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Hartford Courant Co. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'letters Early Voting Works Electoral Votes By Percentage How To Fix The Electoral College Electoral College For Governor?', Hartford Courant, The (online), 24 Dec 2016 7A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/161794B307D7C830 
