
        Liberterians, Laurence Kotlikoff, senior issues, breast cancer,
educated voters, Tony Romot By: the Editor, Letters to. Dallas Morning
News, The (TX). 10/25/2016.     




Letters to the Editor

Oct. 25--Cover the Libertarians

Recently I attended a Libertarian Party campaign event hosted by vice
presidential candidate Bill Weld. I'm tired of all the bickering from
the two candidates representing the Democratic and Republican parties
who spend most of their time telling us how despicable their opponent
is.

Weld hosted a thoughtful and common-sense discussion with a crowd of at
least 500 supporters. He discussed platform positions on several issues
including the budget, the economy, energy, foreign policy, First, Second
and 10th Amendment rights, Supreme Court nominations, immigration, jobs,
minorities and abortion rights. He took questions and never once
denigrated the candidates from either of the other parties.

Conspicuously absent from the event was the presence of any local news
media. I'm sure if the other candidates were visiting Dallas, the local
media would have covered it. Gary Johnson and Weld are on the ballot in
all 50 states. We are three weeks from the election. Isn't a visit by
one of these candidates to our area considered a newsworthy event? It is
important for all voters to be informed of their options.

Will Robinson, Midlothian, @wiillie_robinson

Kotlikoff for president

Shame on us! The current two political candidates who represent the
Republicans and Democrats are the absolute worst I have ever seen. I
personally am going to write in a vote for Laurence Kotlikoff for
president. I first read about him in a Dallas Morning News column by
Scott Burns. Then, I researched him a bit more.

He is an economics professor who has some pretty good ideas about what
our country needs, but for some reason he is never written about by
anybody else. Please do a bit of research about him and let your readers
get a bit of insight into a gentleman who would probably make a much
better president for our country.

William Nowlin, Rockwall

Step up for city, state, country

There has been constant debate in recent weeks in regard to voting one's
conscience and selecting the candidate who adheres to one's virtues.
Discussion involving choosing the lesser of two evils has also been
made.

However, I would like to see those in Texas and nationwide participate
more fully in the political process. Being involved at the city, county,
state and national level takes work. Being not only an informed voter
but informed citizen requires one to venture outside of one's comfort
zone and become involved in the mundane tasks of governance.

There has also been discussion about not having the best candidate to
choose from. Could it be due to the fact that many are not stepping up
to the task of volunteering their time to the art of political service?
Why is it we have to have a political-class elite when the founders of
this nation were involved in all aspects of society?

It is time for all citizens to unite and become involved in the daily
affairs of governance.

Eric Stengel, Garland

A talker or a doer?

The real question as I see it is, does this country need a 30-year
politician who is a smooth talker or a rough-around-the-edges proven
doer? A talker or a doer?

Donald Reichert, Duncanville

Only the informed should vote

Re: "U.S. needs educated votes," by Ralph Williams, Wednesday Letters.

I absolutely agree with this letter from Williams. I have never been in
favor of "Get out the Vote" campaigns. If people must be prodded to
vote, then probably they are not well-enough informed to vote at all.
These people are simply fodder for ideals they do not understand.

Everyone should be able to vote, but they should have at least a
rudimentary understanding of why they are making a decision on who to
vote for and not just vote for who someone told them to vote for. And,
yes, they should present a picture voter I.D. It seems obvious that
someone who does not want to identify themselves has only one motive,
and that is voter fraud. Our democracy depends on honest and fair
elections.

So how do we make sure voters are informed? A simple test that an
average person could pass should be sufficient.

Russell Vincent, Bells

Senior issues are crystal clear

Re: "U.S. keeps ignoring seniors," by James Egan, Oct. 17 Letters.

Egan wrote, "I haven't heard one word from either presidential candidate
about how they're going to help seniors over the next four years." In a
normal election, he might have been right, but not in this 2016 election
when seniors' issues are very prominent.

Even though several of Donald Trump's advisers have questionable
backgrounds, he has limited himself to saying that he will not cut
Social Security.

Hillary Clinton has said publicly and several times that she would
increase Social Security benefits. She's also on record favoring
allowing people over 50 to buy into Medicare. Her advocacy of expanding
health care to include a public option has been repeated several times,
including in the debates. The icing on the cake for Democrats is
Clinton's task force to lower prescription drug prices.

In my 76 years, I've never seen a political race where senior issues
were so crystal clear.

Gene Lantz, Dallas/Oak Cliff, @genelantz

President, Texas Alliance for Retired Americans Educational Fund

Breast health awareness

In October, as in the nation, Dallas becomes awash with pink. While we
applaud those who have led to heightened awareness of breast cancer
through the pink movement, our research shows that this has also caused
many women to avoid their annual mammogram due to fear and anxiety
associated with the disease.

For that reason, we propose that rather than a focus on fear, October be
known as National Women's Breast Health Month. In support of this, Mayor
Mike Rawlings proclaimed just that for the city of Dallas. In his
proclamation, he encourages women to make a renewed commitment to their
breast health, to early detection and to discussing mammography with
their health care providers.

As many race for a cure, it's often overlooked that mammography is the
closest thing we have to a cure. And with advances in 3-D, mammography
is the gold standard for preventive breast health. Early detection
becomes critical to more than survival, but also to quality of life --
minimizing the cost and invasiveness of treatment when found at later
stages.

This October, do more than create awareness of breast cancer -- take
action. Get your mammogram, and promote breast health for you and those
you love.

James Polfreman, Addison, Solis Mammography, president and CEO

Romo vs. Prescott

Tony Romo vs. Dak Prescott: It's very simple. If it ain't broke, don't
fix it.

Robert Monk, Mesquite

