STOP FALLING FOR TRUMP NONSENSE 
December 4, 2016 | Tampa Bay Times (FL) 
Section: PERSPECTIVE 
931 Words 
LETTER 
Page: 2 
OpenURL 
Link 
Flag burners cannot lose their citizenship -Nov. 30 
Donald Trump managed to get on the front page of the Times and other mainstream news publications with his comment last week about flag burning. At some point, some media publication has to have the guts to call him out on his strategy of mesmerizing the press with these non-issues in order to keep the spotlight off his true agenda. Flag burning? Really? Are people doing it regularly? 
At some point the media has to say, "Why do we keep giving so much print space to someone who is continually using us as the medium to manipulate the general public?" Those who believe his ridiculous statements ("widespread voter fraud as 3 million people voted illegally") can choose to tune in to his Twitter account for this sensationalism. The media is giving him exactly what he wants by publicizing his ridiculous statements. 
What we really need are some top investigative journalists (like the ones who put together the "Failure Factories" research that you did) to find out what his true agenda is and expose it to the world so he can stop mesmerizing the all-consuming reality TV public with his crazy distractions. 
Some say that using the presidency to further expand his real estate empire globally is the real plan. 
Since we have already seen politicians who vocally opposed him suddenly change their stance and support him in order to gain more power, the media is going to be the only organization capable of keeping him from doing far worse things than the Bush administration did. So please, I implore you to do some more of that award-winning journalism and stop reprinting and analyzing his ridiculous daily tweets -which is exactly what he wants you to do. 
Sabrina Fabian, Tampa 
*** 
Letter of the Month 
November's winning letter is an account by an immigrant to the United States. 
Work hard, achieve dreams 
I am an immigrant. I moved to the United States over 30 years ago when I was 5. I've been here so long 
Since first grade, people bullied me because I looked and sounded different. I met my best friend to this day when I was 8 years old. He sat behind me in class and one day I gave him a slap bracelet for "never making fun of me," and we've been best friends ever since. He marched to the beat of his own drummer and didn't participate in the bullying. 
I never remember anything being easy for my family. We didn't have much. No car, no A/C in the summer, and a roof that leaked every time it rained. The only promise made was the harder you work, the more you can achieve. You can make your dreams come true if you're willing to work for it; you can be anything you want to be. This is my America. 
When I was 16, I was diagnosed with cancer. I went through over a year of chemo and radiation. When I entered remission and became an adult, I was surprised to find that my insurance wouldn't cover my cancer checkups. Scans that I needed to make sure it was gone cost thousands but were not covered due to a pre-existing condition. Worse, if the cancer ever returned, my insurance wouldn't help with the hundreds of thousands of dollars it costs for these treatments. Then my America changed. She told me that she wouldn't let me down if I got sick again; she'd have my back if I wanted to fight. 
My dad died shortly after my 18th birthday and I wasn't able to pursue college. My brother was 15 and my sister was 4. I wasn't sure what to do and almost gave up. I wasn't ready to be an adult or help support a family. Then I remembered America's promise. If I couldn't go to school, I'd work multiple jobs, 90-plus hours a week. I still remember falling asleep after 15-hour shifts, dreaming I could be anything I wanted to be. I worked as hard as I could at every opportunity and job, and kept setting higher goals. 
In another country, I could not aspire to where I am today. Racism and inequality exist everywhere, but in America the best friend you didn't know you had may be sitting right behind you, already watching your back. I owe everything I am today to the opportunities America gave me, for taking a chance on me when I literally had nothing, little hope and all the odds against me. I'm proud to be a U.S. citizen. 
Rabindranath Sawh, Tampa 
*** 
Medicare, Social Security 
Hold on for a wild ride 
Hold on to your hats, Medicare/Medicaid and Social Security recipients. You're in for a wild ride. 
Your "Make America Great Again" savior is going to privatize your Social Security and mess with your 
traditional fee-for-service Medicare. Don't think "privatize" is a dirty word? Wait till your monthly Social Security check amount fluctuates according to stock market hills and valleys. Those valley months are going to be long and lean. Budgeting and paying bills will become a nightmare because you never know what the next monthly check will be. 
Fasten you seat belts! Marie Cunha, Hudson *** Dana Summers cartoon -Nov. 30 False and insulting I appreciate seeing political cartoons that lampoon the liberal/left/Democratic faction, even though my 
political orientation is much more left than center. But this offering was offensive. It implies that those of 
us who are concerned about the gun violence epidemic would deplore the shooting of the knife-wielding 
attacker at Ohio State. This cartoon is blatantly false and insulting. 
James Payne, Temple Terrace 
Copyright (c) 2016 Tampa Bay Times 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'STOP FALLING FOR TRUMP NONSENSE', Tampa Bay Times (online), 4 Dec 2016 2 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1611765CCD203EA8 
