SCIENTISTS MUST NOT BE SILENCED 
January 29, 2017 | Tampa Bay Times (FL) 
Section: PERSPECTIVE 
920 Words 
LETTER 
Page: 2 
OpenURL 
Link 
Trump's Cabinet 
Climate change is a real threat. It is not a theory, it is not up for debate, it is not an issue that needs further discussion. 
EPA nominee Scott Pruitt and Energy Department nominee Rick Perry recently made statements diminishing the severity and reality of this global crisis during their confirmation hearings. Donald Trump just issued a gag order that forbids governmental scientists from communicating with the public. Now is not a time for science to be silenced. 
Scientists and academic leaders must speak out and stand up for objective truths, particularly here in Florida where the impacts of sea level rise and storm surges on coastal communities will be catastrophic. We need to face these problems with real solutions, not dismiss the evidence. I recently wrote an open letter, signed by over 100 of my colleagues at USF, urging the university administration to make a statement in support of its own employees and students who conduct research, educate and learn about climate change. We have yet to hear a response, but as I wrote in that letter, remaining silent condones the propagation of misinformation and accepts attacks on the credibility of our faculty, students and our entire institution. 
We must fervently defend scientists and science, for the sake of intellectual integrity and for the sake of our future on this planet. 
Suzanne Young, Tampa 
*** 
Illegal voting 
Show us the evidence 
President Donald Trump recently reiterated his claim that millions of ballots were cast illegally, resulting in his loss of the popular vote. Now that he has assumed office, these charges must be taken literally and seriously. 
His accusations are not only damaging to the image of our democratic process but, if proven true, would have a profound effect on many "down ballot" contests. For instance, the Senate race in New Hampshire -a state in which Trump previously cited voter fraud -was decided by less than 1,000 votes. Clearly, illegal voting could have easily compromised this result. 
There is no place for "alternate facts" within these allegations. Trump owes it to the American people and the integrity of his position to produce evidence validating these charges. 
Ralph Parmenter, Port Richey 
Opinions aren't facts 
In the "alternative facts" world of the president's press secretary, truth and facts are irrelevant. His justification for allegations of massive voter fraud is not based on evidence or investigations or complaints. They are "valid" because it is a longstanding belief of Donald Trump. The beliefs of Trump are not the truth. The pronouncements of his press secretary are a dangerous precedent and a reckless assault on our democracy. Trump and his minions must put up or shut up on the issue of "massive voter fraud." 
Carl Zielonka, Tampa 
*** 
Pen paves way for wall -Jan. 26 
Practical difficulties 
So, we're going to build a wall. It's going to be a little more difficult than our president imagines. 
A tunnel found last year was 23 feet deep, 9 feet wide, 4 feet tall and 1,689 feet long. So, Mr. President, just how deep are you going to build that wall? 
And before you answer, you need to understand that the logistics of digging a tunnel are much simpler than those of building a wall. All you need to do is dig a little deeper at both ends and the rest of the digging is pretty much the same. 
Is this ridiculous idea going to join others like the French Maginot Line or the Great Wall of China? In both those cases, the invaders simply went around those walls. 
It seems to me that the proponents of this wall have no clue of history, and sadly, it seems that history is just going to repeat itself. David Duff, Pinellas Park *** A chance to move forward -Jan. 25, letter 
Marching for our rights I have never marched for anything, despite the many causes I have supported during my life. But I decided to attend the Women's March in Washington the day after the inauguration. A letter writer called the actions of marchers a "temper tantrum" and that protesting the day after the inauguration was "disrespectful and rude ... boorish behavior." 
Funny. I'd use those same words to describe the behavior of the current president. 
I marched in solidarity with all of those who have been and will continue to be marginalized and attacked, those who have real fear of losing their rights under the new administration. Anita Huenke, Safety Harbor *** Kriseman mimics Clinton's mistakes Jan. 22, Tim Nickens column District is making progress We were disheartened to read in this column a statement referencing the Skyway Marina Business 
District that "a heavily promoted drive to improve" the district "has produced fancy signs and little else." 
The district has seen far more positive developments than just "fancy signs." -Phillips development: More than $60 million for a mixed-use development project on the former vacant Home Depot site. 
-Brixmor Capital: $20 million invested in 2016 to construct a new Publix shopping center. -Wawa: $3 million to be spent to build a new Wawa store on a closed bank property. -Ceridian: Ongoing investment and commitment to the district, including the expansion of the Ceridian 
campus to an office park facility. 
-Maximo Marina: $20 million investment in the full renovation of the marina, including new docks, seawalls and boat slips. 
-Grand Villa: $10 million investment to renovate an assisted living facility and convert it to state-of-the-art adult living. 
The investment of over $115 million in the district has occurred within the last 18 months or, for new projects, will occur over the next six months. 
Keri Melshenker, St. Petersburg 
The writer is district manager of the Skyway Marina District. 
Copyright (c) 2017 Tampa Bay Times 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'SCIENTISTS MUST NOT BE SILENCED', Tampa Bay Times (online), 29 Jan 2017 2 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1623ED5C1866CF98 
