WORK HARD, ACHIEVE DREAMS 
November 14, 2016 | Tampa Bay Times (FL) 
Section: NATIONAL 
932 Words 
LETTER 
Page: 4 
OpenURL 
Link 
American immigrant 
I am an immigrant. I moved to the United States over 30 years ago when I was 5. I've been here so long that I don't even remember my first language. English, my second language, is now my only language. From when I arrived and even after all these years, some people don't see me as American. 
Since first grade, people bullied me because I looked and sounded different. I met my best friend to this day when I was 8 years old. He sat behind me in class and one day I gave him a slap bracelet for "never making fun of me," and we've been best friends ever since. He marched to the beat of his own drummer and didn't participate in the bullying. 
I never remember anything being easy for my family. We didn't have much. No car, no A/C in the summer, and a roof that leaked every time it rained. The only promise made was the harder you work, the more you can achieve. You can make your dreams come true if you're willing to work for it; you can be anything you want to be. This is my America. 
When I was 16, I was diagnosed with cancer. I went through over a year of chemo and radiation. When I entered remission and became an adult, I was surprised to find that my insurance wouldn't cover my cancer checkups. Scans that I needed to make sure it was gone cost thousands but were not covered due to a pre-existing condition. Worse, if the cancer ever returned, my insurance wouldn't help with the hundreds of thousands of dollars it costs for these treatments. Then my America changed. She told me that she wouldn't let me down if I got sick again; she'd have my back if I wanted to fight. 
My dad died shortly after my 18th birthday and I wasn't able to pursue college. My brother was 15 and my sister was 4. I wasn't sure what to do and almost gave up. I wasn't ready to be an adult or help support a family. Then I remembered America's promise. If I couldn't go to school, I'd work multiple jobs, 90-plus hours a week. I still remember falling asleep after 15-hour shifts, dreaming I could be anything I wanted to be. I worked as hard as I could at every opportunity and job, and kept setting higher goals. 
In another country, I could not aspire to where I am today. Racism and inequality exist everywhere, but in America the best friend you didn't know you had may be sitting right behind you, already watching your back. I owe everything I am today to the opportunities America gave me, for taking a chance on me when I literally had nothing, little hope and all the odds against me. I'm proud to be a U.S. citizen. 
Rabindranath Sawh, Tampa 
*** Election 2016 Reconciliation obstacles The incessant whining, uncontrollable tears and doomsday predictions by some Hillary Clinton voters, 
liberal media and TV pundits are clearly indicative of the serious divisive problems we face in our 
country. A period of reconciliation and fence-mending will be difficult for some and impossible for others. We gave an untested, inexperienced Barack Obama the benefit of the doubt to lead us for eight years. Sadly, the number of those malcontents who want to abandon America for greener pastures elsewhere won't outnumber those who stream across our open borders indiscriminately. 
Harvey A. Smith, Palm Harbor *** Alternate history Just asking, but if Donald Trump had won the popular vote by about 200,000 votes, and had lost the 
Electoral College 279-228, would it have been a rigged election with massive voter fraud? Somehow that did not seem to be the case with the results being exactly the opposite, Trump's pre-election protestations notwithstanding. 
Peter J. Throdahl, Clearwater *** Trump won fair and square -Nov. 10, Daniel Ruth column 'Silent majority' awakens I do not always agree with Daniel Ruth's views, but I do respect his ability to maintain objectivity and 
perspective, as illustrated by his post-election observation that the Democrats and Washington elites have led millions of Americans to conclude that they have been ignored, disenfranchised, marginalized and belittled, leading to the reawakening of the "silent majority." 
My wife and I observed a prophetic instance of this phenomenon while standing in line for early voting at the Jan Platt Library in South Tampa. There we met a self-employed 50-year-old furniture mover studying a sample ballot in one hand and clutching his freshly issued voter registration card in the other. He announced to all within earshot he had never voted in any election, but he was there to vote for just 
one person, because he was no better off than he was 15 years ago. No one had to ask him who that person was. You are correct, Mr. Ruth -Trump won fair and square. Bill Josey, Tampa *** Rubio earns return trip -Nov. 9 
Keep tabs on their service Floridians returned Marco Rubio to the Senate despite his voting record and his lack of service to our state. I suggest the Times institute a weekly or monthly report card showing the attendance and voting records of all those we in Florida elected to Congress -representatives and senators. We deserve to know if they are serving us and if they are voting on issues that come before them. 
We don't hire employees and pay them not to come to work. The same standard should apply to our elected representatives in Washington. Donald Fell, Lutz *** Pot wins, solar fails -Nov. 9 
Installation on the way Now we have three reasons to install rooftop solar panels: 1. Save money on electrical bills; 2. Save the planet; and 3. Stick it to the liars at TECO and Duke for trying to sell Amendment 1 as pro-solar. 
Kevin McLean, Tampa 
Copyright (c) 2016 Tampa Bay Times 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'WORK HARD, ACHIEVE DREAMS', Tampa Bay Times (online), 14 Nov 2016 4 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160A7E8004701BC0 
