Legislature violates state constitution
Newspaper September 30, 2016 | Knoxville News Sentinel: Web Edition Articles (TN)
Section: Opinion 290 Words
Legislature violates state constitution
The Tennessee constitutional oath specifies office holders shall support both the U.S. and state constitutions. Unfortunately, Tennessee’s constitutional noncompliances, like the special taxpayer funded session to undo ignoring federal constitution powers ($60 million, oops) is just the latest.

Consider just a few (there are others) noncompliances.

The special session for the expulsion of state Rep. Jeremy Durham exposes taxpayers to costly court proceedings over constitutional provisions.

A long-established provision specifies that “the Legislature shall have no power to grant divorces,” yet a recently enacted amendment declares “one man and one woman” is “only legally recognized marital contract.”

Designating the Bible as the official state book violates one provision — “no preference shall ever be given” to any religion — and infringes upon another: no “religious test” to hold office.

The Hall income tax reduction law violates a provision that bans laws that “impose increased expenditures” on cities or counties unless the state shares in the cost.

Citizen have the right “to examine the proceedings” of their government, a right that is continually violated with fees, barriers and delays imposed on open records requests.

The Legislature is directed to pass laws “to secure the freedom of elections and the purity of the ballot box.” The right of suffrage “shall never be denied to any person entitled.” “Entitled” means a U.S. citizen, at least 18 years old and a state resident. Plus (and this is very important), the state constitution declares: “There shall be no other qualification attached to the right of suffrage.” The state’s voter photo ID law violates the “no other qualification” requirement and reduces the “freedom of elections” by adding a constraint. Voter fraud is a myth.

The motto, “Constitutions. Constitutions? We don’t need no stinking Constitutions!” seems apropos of Tennessee’s legislative history.

Tom Gangwer, Farragut
© 2016 Journal Media Group

