George H. Gallup IV, Townsend
Newspaper September 30, 2016 | Knoxville News Sentinel (TN)
Section: Opinion 911 Words
Page: 2B
George H. Gallup IV, Townsend
George H. Gallup IV, Townsend

Sources of nation’s woes are obvious

Isn’t it obvious that progress and change in this country are never going to happen until we amend and reform our highly dysfunctional, biased and undemocratic electoral, political and governmental processes?

Isn’t it obvious that our democracy is not functioning and operating in the manner in which it was originally intended (government of the people, by the people and for the people, etc.)?

Look at the ongoing dysfunction in Congress and our consistently low voter turnout rate. Are these not clear indications and symptoms that something is seriously amiss and terribly awry?

Isn’t it obvious that America’s collective voice is no longer recognized or heard, and that we continue to be unfairly and inaccurately represented — regardless of our party preferences and allegiances?

Isn’t it obvious that our representatives are no longer fit to act on our behalf because their collective decisions and judgments have become increasingly tainted, obscured, and biased, motivated and influenced entirely by self-serving interests, political ambitions, party allegiances and agendas?

In national opinion polls, Americans cross party lines all the time when expressing their attitudes or voicing their opinions on controversial subjects or hotly debated issues. Did you know that? Yet Congress, consistently and very predictably continues to vote entirely along party lines. C’mon, America, where’s our outrage over this egregious injustice and deplorable demonstration of unfairness, misrepresentation and betrayal?

Isn’t it obvious that if we continue to acquiesce, give in and maintain the status quo, our lives will never significantly improve or dramatically change for the better? Is not the definition of insanity doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results?

The future is in our hands, America. Will you join me in this cause?

Tom Gangwer, Farragut

Legislature violates state constitution

The Tennessee constitutional oath specifies office holders shall support both the U.S. and state constitutions. Unfortunately, Tennessee’s constitutional noncompliances, like the special taxpayer funded session to undo ignoring federal constitution powers ($60 million, oops) is just the latest.

Consider just a few (there are others) noncompliances.

The special session for the expulsion of state Rep. Jeremy Durham exposes taxpayers to costly court proceedings over constitutional provisions.

A long-established provision specifies that “the Legislature shall have no power to grant divorces,” yet a recently enacted amendment declares “one man and one woman” is “only legally recognized marital contract.”

Designating the Bible as the official state book violates one provision — “no preference shall ever be given” to any religion — and infringes upon another: no “religious test” to hold office.

The Hall income tax reduction law violates a provision that bans laws that “impose increased expenditures” on cities or counties unless the state shares in the cost.

Citizen have the right “to examine the proceedings” of their government, a right that is continually violated with fees, barriers and delays imposed on open records requests.

The Legislature is directed to pass laws “to secure the freedom of elections and the purity of the ballot box.” The right of suffrage “shall never be denied to any person entitled.” “Entitled” means a U.S. citizen, at least 18 years old and a state resident. Plus (and this is very important), the state constitution declares: “There shall be no other qualification attached to the right of suffrage.” The state’s voter photo ID law violates the “no other qualification” requirement and reduces the “freedom of elections” by adding a constraint. Voter fraud is a myth.

The motto, “Constitutions. Constitutions? We don’t need no stinking Constitutions!” seems apropos of Tennessee’s legislative history.

Jeremy Jennins, Knoxville

Students need to learn about Islam

I read at knoxnews.com that the entire section of standards regarding Islam has been removed from the seventh-grade curriculum.

Let me state in the strongest terms possible how irresponsible and egregious this action is. An educated citizenry is essential to democracy, but apparently the committee’s position is, “If we close our eyes, it will go away.”

The United States has spent the last 15 years, trillions of dollars and thousands of lives in conflict in the Middle East, and the state of Tennessee does not want its citizenry to know the difference between Sunni and Shia?

How can we expect Tennesseans to understand the events in Syria, Iraq, Iran and Saudi Arabia — events that very much affect global stability and American interests — if we deprive our students of exposure to the basic facts of the history of the region?

This action reeks of the “sharia is taking over America” fearmongers and represents a complete capitulation by those who should know better.

Ignorance, while perhaps blissful, is never wise.

Jean Reich, Loudon

Some teachers could use a dress code, too

I know that some schools have dress codes for their students, but, after seeing the picture in the paper of a woman teaching her class in Maryville, I think they need a dress code for teachers.

I was appalled at her outfit — tacky T-shirt, blue jeans and running shoes. She looked like she was ready to work in the yard. How do you get respect from your students when you look like some of your students?

Surly she could have taken a little time on her wardrobe and maybe wore a nice blouse and slacks. It seems to be the look now on teachers. They all dress so casual, even the men. If the women don’t want to wear dresses, they could wear nice pant suits or skirts.

If I were a teacher, I think I would like to make a better impression on my students.
© 2016 Journal Media Group

