Opinion Line (Dec. 17) 
December 17, 2016 | Wichita Eagle, The (KS) Author: The Wichita Eagle 
Section: opinion line 
319 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
E-mail comments, 40 words or fewer, to opline@wichitaeagle.com 
We the people can forget about the government set up by our forefathers because Donald Trump, president elect, is busy setting up his own government. My father-in-law fought against Hitler in World War II, helped liberate concentration camps, was a brilliant 
scientist and raised a good family. How sad that now, as he faces his 94th birthday, our country is so divided with hateful rhetoric, false news and a reckless demagog about to take power. 
Recounts. How many times does Hillary Clinton want to lose this election? If each state got one vote, the election would still have gone to Trump 30-20. Two-fifths for the country didnt get to hold three-fifths of the country hostage to Clinton. 
Mark my words: The first female president will be a Republican. 
Mr. Trump: A wise man knows that he knows nothing, and a fool thinks he knows everything. Go to the intelligence briefings. Does anyone remember the recessions under both Bush presidencies? Well, get ready. Were about to 
be made great again. My drivers license renewal stated that I needed to bring proof of current address. A utility bill or 
government document would suffice. The examiner simply asked, Has your address changed? No possibility of voter fraud, huh? In all fairness, Trump and Kris Kobach were very forthcoming about the fact that millions of illegal votes 
were cast. They just left out the part about those votes being cast by Russia. The Russians are coming! The Russians are coming! I finally get why they want gun lockers at Sedgwick County Courthouse. So the county government can 
stop shooting itself in the foot. Maybe it is not the city of Wichita that is so boring; maybe it is just that the people living here have a boring attitude and want someone to knock on their door and bring the activities to them. 
Copyright 2016 The Wichita Eagle 
Citation (aglc Style) 
The Wichita Eagle, 'Opinion Line (Dec. 17)', Wichita Eagle, The (online), 17 Dec 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1615556E041D63F8 
