Letters on election, Kobach bashing 
December 16, 2016 | Wichita Eagle, The (KS) 
Author: The Wichita Eagle 
Section: letters to the editor 
366 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
The real scandal of the 2016 election 
Whatever the merits of a presidential recount and the evaluation of the Electoral College, the real scandal of the 2016 election was the loss of the right to vote. 
It began with the Supreme Courts ugly Shelby County v. Holder decision, which destroyed a key section of the Voting Rights Act, allowing several Republican-controlled states to rewrite election laws limiting Democrats and minorities the chance to vote. 
For example, North Carolina imposed the strictest voting regulations in the country requiring photo IDs, providing fewer polling places, eliminating Sunday voting and same-day registration. This was ostensibly to protect against voter fraud, but in practice it disenfranchised many  overwhelmingly people of color. It also uncovered miniscule, if any, signs of fraud. 
The North Carolina Republican Party issued a press release boasting how its efforts pushed down the African-American turnout. Nationwide, probably hundreds of thousands were denied the vote in similar situations. 
And who was a major instigator of this unjust denial of voting rights? Kris Kobach, the paranoid, fraud-obsessed, naive Kansas Secretary of State. Voting matters. 
Don Anderson, Winfield 
Kobach bashing 
I fail to understand The Eagles constant bashing of Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach. Has your staff done any research of voter fraud? Or do you just print the liberal version hoping to increase the percent of liberals in Kansas? 
Please read the Wall Street Journal editorial titled Do Illegal Votes Decide Elections? by Hans von Spakovsky and John Fund  easily found on the internet. 
Liberal states such as California exert no control over who is registered to vote, which is why we must keep the Electoral College for presidential elections. The popular vote means nothing when states are not forced to comply with the National Voter Registration Act. 
Paula S. Kidd, Wichita 
Letters to the Editor Include your full name, home address and phone number for verification purposes. All letters are edited for clarity and length; 200 words or fewer are best. Letters may be published in any format and become the property of The Eagle.Mail: Letters to the Editor, The Wichita Eagle, 825 E. Douglas, Wichita, KS 67202E-mail: letters@wichitaeagle.comFax: 316-269-6799For more information, contact Phillip Brownlee at 316-268-6262, pbrownlee@wichitaeagle.com. 
Copyright 2016 The Wichita Eagle 
Citation (aglc Style) 
The Wichita Eagle, 'Letters on election, Kobach bashing', Wichita Eagle, The (online), 16 Dec 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16155563287193A0 
