Opinion Line (Jan. 30) 
January 30, 2017 | Wichita Eagle, The (KS) Author: The Wichita Eagle 
Section: opinion line 
340 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
E-mail comments, 40 words or fewer, to opline@wichitaeagle.com 
My great-great-great-grandfather will be disappointed that he may not be able to vote in the future thanks to President Trump and his voter-fraud investigation. Trump is worried about voter fraud while at least five of his family members or top appointees are 
registered to vote in two states. 
Remember when the Republicans lost the election to Democrats and they protested, broke windows and set cars on fire? Me either. George Washington could not tell a lie. Richard Nixon could not tell the truth. Trump cannot tell the 
difference. That womens march looked and sounded like a meeting of my ex-wives. Trumps first action as president was to sign an executive order. After the squawking the Republicans 
did when President Obama signed executive orders, are we now going to hear them squawking about 
Trump? Bets anyone? Its unlikely that Obama would have prevailed in a third presidential election. Obama proclaimed that his policies and programs were on the ballot with Hillary Clinton, and they lost big time last November. 
Many Trump supporters consoled themselves by saying we should not take Trumps words seriously. Based on his nominees and speeches as president, its looking pretty serious. 
At last, change we can believe in  Obama got a change of address. Our new president should outsource the building of the Trump-Mexican wall to the Chinese. They build great walls. 
We need to forget the wall and build a huge mirror to reflect what we have become as a nation. The presidents power of pardon and reprieve should only be in effect from day one until two weeks 
My cat has thrown up on a daily basis ever since Trump was inaugurated. Coincidence? I think not. 
Dont call someones house and say: Who is this? You are the caller. At least say your name and then ask who it is. 
Join the conversation E-mail comments, 40 words or fewer, to opline@wichitaeagle.com. 
Copyright 2017 The Wichita Eagle 
Citation (aglc Style) 
The Wichita Eagle, 'Opinion Line (Jan. 30)', Wichita Eagle, The (online), 30 Jan 2017 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1623D543B15C90F0 
