kentucky voices on kentucky.com/opinion 
October 24, 2016 | Lexington Herald-Leader (KY) Section: News 
605 Words 
Page: 9A 
OpenURL 
Link 
russia, china for trump 
Having spent two weeks in Russia this fall following seven weeks this summer in China, I have found new energy in two realities: We are about to elect the next leader of the free world, and the world is watching us. 
If the Russians and the Chinese had the right to vote in the U.S. election, look out for President Trump, but for entirely different reasons. 
I've also been reminded of three truisms: We live in a small news media world; education can be indoctrination, and voter fraud is universal. 
"We aired the U.S. presidential debate on Russian television even though we don't even broadcast the debates for our own Russian elections," a longtime Russian journalist friend said. 
At the first presidential debate, through the Russian lens, Clinton wore blood red, looking more hawkish, more Barry Goldwater Republican, than her opponent. I heard Russians describe her views as "crazy" more than once. 
In China the word "crazy" came up, but in this context: "If America is crazy enough to elect Trump, then he will be such a disaster that it will give China just the jump it needs to overtake America as the No. 1 economy in the world." 
How catholics should vote 
So how should Catholics vote who are tuned into Pope Francis' more comprehensive moral concerns? According to the pope's eco-encyclical, his Apostolic Exhortation, The Joy of the Gospel, and his address to the U.S. Congress, Catholics should vote against: 
* 
Climate-change deniers and for those who share the pope's climate concerns. 
* 
Champions of dirty fossil fuels. 
* 
Those who would exclude refugees from finding shelter in the United States and in favor of those advocating sanctuary. 
* 
Those who favor arms sales abroad and in favor of proponents of divestment from the arms industry. 
* 
Champions of capital punishment and in favor of those calling for its abolition. 
* 
Those proposing tax cuts for the wealthy and in favor of increased redistributive taxes on their incomes. 
* 
Those whose answers to global terrorism are war, bombing and drone assassinations, and in favor of those who offer legal and diplomatic solutions to the problem of national security. 
foreign policy worries 
My greatest fear is what will happen after Nov. 8. I am not a foreign policy expert. However, I fear a resurgent Russia thrashing into the old Soviet empire and China's obvious designs on controlling the South China Sea. From my readings, Vladimir Putin has in place the underlings, apparatus and backing of Russian oligarchs to direct Russian domestic and foreign policies. whether he is in office or not. 
Putin took advantage of the seemingly successful Sochi Olympics to take over the Crimea. Black-uniformed Russians appeared to troll into the Ukraine without much opposition. 
Furthermore, what really is the aim of China in the South China Sea other than to control that waterway and dominate the surrounding countries? I am worried about the relationship of Donald Trump and Putin. Trump appears only interested in securing our borders. Is this a latent isolationism that would endanger the world? The U.S. is the strongest nation in the world. To preach, "Make America Great Again" denies all the sacrifices made by our service men and women over the ages. 
So the question is: How would President Trump, who apparently knows nothing about foreign policy, perhaps even American history, react to Russian and Chinese incursions? The prospect is frightening. 
The Cold War never ended. It just continued into a new stage. Both Russia and China are ruled by oligarchs with a patina of old-fashioned communism. 
Copyright (c) 2016 Lexington Herald-Leader 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'kentucky voices on kentucky.com/opinion', Lexington Herald-Leader (online), 24 Oct 2016 9A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1603AFE4416F14A8 
