Sept. 12, 2016, Letters to the Editor 
September 12, 2016 | Boston Herald (MA) Author: HERALD READERS 
Section: Opinion 
507 Words 
Volume: 34 Issue: 256 Page: 16 
OpenURL 
Link 
Must be a third way 
No. Choosing between Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton is not the best this country can offer in a presidential election (Sadly, were going to be stuck with one of them, Sept. 7). It is only the worst of what our electoral system will allow. 
Ultimately, we have to open up the process to allow third and fourth parties to compete. 
 Gene Roman, Bronx, N.Y. 
Weiner a sick dog 
I am outraged after reading Heidi Stevens column (Weiners flaws all his own, Aug. 31). 
Stevens assertion that Anthony Weiner exhibited bad judgment is shocking to me. Any man who texts photos of his crotch while his 4-year-old sleeps next to him is sick  very mentally sick  and for Stevens to not recognize this and simply state that it is bad judgement shows a complete lack of understanding and sensitivity. 
This man is a threat to society, not to mention his own son. He should be prevented from having further contact with his son, and if his wife does not stop this the appropriate child welfare agency should. 
 Carol Rayworth, Seabrook, N.H. 
Make Madison Park tops 
As a longtime supporter of the Hubert Humphrey Occupational Resource Center, now known as Madison Park High School, I continue to be troubled by the state of affairs at this important educational resource (City pulls out all the stops for Madison Park turnaround, Aug. 31). The Herald reported that both of the schools two leaders were appointed without the appropriate credentials to lead a vocational/technical school. (One of the two was recently approved.) This leads me to wonder how many of the 50 new instructors likewise lack these credentials. 
As the school moves forward, we should keep in mind the mandates of vocational education. Most of the professions and occupations that this school prepares students for justifiably require licenses, credentials or apprenticeships as prerequisites for employment. Would we hire a lawyer who hadnt passed the bar, a doctor who lacked the proper credentials or an Uber driver without a license? 
 Joseph J. Smith, Hyde Park 
Look in mirror, Pence 
It didnt take vice presidential candidate Mike Pence long to jump on the GOP paranoia platform (Pence warns N.H. to be wary of rigged polls, Aug. 19). 
He and his carnival-barker running mate should know by now a voter has a better chance of being struck by lightning than committing voter fraud. Nonetheless, its too bad Pence didnt mention that in 2012 his own states top elections official was convicted on six felony counts, including voter fraud. The GOP secretary of state, Charlie White, was then removed from office. 
Or maybe the good voters of New Hampshire should have reminded Pence of the GOP operatives caught trying to rig the 2002 election there, which included a U.S. Senate race. One, Allen Raymond, did a stint in the federal slammer and even wrote How to Rig an Election: Confessions of a GOP Operative. 
When your party has no ideas or viable candidates, you blame the media or rigged elections or voter fraud. Its what you do. 
 Eugene McCarthy, Arlington 
Copyright (c) 2016 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
HERALD READERS, 'Sept. 12, 2016, Letters to the Editor', Boston Herald (online), 12 Sep 2016, 34 (256) 16 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15F5C30AD27EAA38 
