Sun mistreats Trump -The seductive allure -of Trumpspeak -GOP gives the needy lip-service -Our 'narcissistic idiot' -in Washington -Trump could go nuclear 
January 28, 2017 | Sun, The (Baltimore, MD) Section: Main News 
716 Words 
Page: 13 
OpenURL 
Link 
Sun mistreats Trump 
Wow, I have gained a new and profound respect for The Baltimore Sun and its editors! We don't really need a president in this country because the editors of this fine newspaper certainly have a crystal ball at their fingertips. 
The Sun knows that President Donald Trump's executive orders on building a wall, barring refugees and punishing sanctuary cities will not make America safer or more prosperous ("Trump immigration policies: As ineffective as they are xenophobic," Jan. 25)! This partisan, opinionated, far-left newspaper just might be the salvation this great country of ours has been seeking! 
Oh, by the way, I noticed not once in the entire editorial did the Sun call Mr. Trump "President Trump." Shame on you for your total disrespect of the office and our president. You are disgusting and reprehensible to say the least. 
Gail Householder, Marriottsville 
The seductive allure 
of Trumpspeak 
The immigration issue and the call to "send in the feds" to fight crime in Chicago is a canard -this is about racism, pure and simple. It is also central to what will be the Trump administration's most glaring immorality: Republicans will sleep easier now that CIA "black" sites and "enhanced interrogation techniques" are back. 
Pundits on Fox News will talk tough, led by their chief blowhard, Bill O'Reilly, a really "honest" tough guy and the network's ratings leader, which is what President Trump respects most in this world. 
"American carnage" will become another shining example of our new Orwellian shorthand, or Trumpspeak. "Build the wall," "lock her up," "American carnage," etc. 
Isn't it rich? When the president, having served less than a week in office, is talking about "sending in the feds," we should all shudder. 
What are those feds going to do in Chicago? Create jobs? 
Perhaps we should bring back bayonets. That has a nice ring to it. Mr. Bannon and Mr. O'Reilly surely would like that. 
Joshua L. Shoemaker, Towson 
GOP gives the needy lip-service 
As usual, Dan Rodricks was right on ("The big 'ifs' that hold Baltimore back," Jan. 21). Sadly, Republicans mouth the rhetoric about the poor and the need to help. But as we see with Gov. Larry Hogan and President Donald Trump, there is no action, or action that makes the situation worse. 
Witness Governor Hogan's proposed budget cuts, which will severely impact those in need. That's a "renewed partnership?" And President Trump cutting health services to women with his latest edict or his proposed education secretary who wants to destroy public education. To quote the president: "All talk, no action." 
Joyce Kelly, Ellicott City 
Our 'narcissistic idiot' 
in Washington 
Remarkable. Donald Trump now holds the highest office in the land. Yet he still holds onto the unbelievable notion that he should have won the popular vote if it were not for the millions of illegal votes cast against him ("President Trump seeks 'major investigation' into unsupported claims of voter fraud," Jan. 25). Of course, he still has yet to offer proof about this. 
Is his concern that some people may think his presidency is illegitimate since he lost the popular vote? I think he should be more concerned that his whining about winning the election, in essence being a sore winner, makes him look like a narcissistic idiot. 
Daniel Frost, Pikesville 
Trump could go nuclear 
Not since the Civil War has American politics been so partisan and the American people so divided. I try to reassure friends who are opposed to Donald Trump and frightened by his presidency. "Have no fear," I declare with confidence. "The country will survive. Our democracy withstood the Civil War and Watergate. I have no doubt that it will endure until the 2020 elections." 
But the truth is I do have doubts and I am not confident about the future. In my head, I keep hearing a voice in Yogi Berra-speak that cautions, "We'll live through a Trump presidency -if we live through a Trump presidency." 
I am not worried that President Trump will destroy our democratic institutions; he will not. My genuine fear is that a thin-skinned, easily taunted, woefully ill-prepared and dangerously impulsive president will provoke or be provoked into a nuclear war. I have never before set the bar so low for an incoming president: I will consider Donald Trump's presidency a success if he merely avoids Armageddon ("White House opens door to military cooperation with Russia, but it would be illegal," Jan. 23). 
Larry Yeatman, Towson 
Copyright (c) 2017 The Baltimore Sun Company 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Sun mistreats Trump The seductive allure of Trumpspeak GOP gives the needy lip-service Our 'narcissistic idiot' in Washington Trump could go nuclear', Sun, The (online), 28 Jan 2017 13 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16232513130CEC30 
