Tuesday, Nov. 22, 2016:Medicare on the chopping block, Trump better make us proud, stop animal cruelty at fairs 
November 21, 2016 | Bangor Daily News (ME) 
976 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Trump unleashes hate 
On Nov. 8, a man was elected president because of his blatant lack of "political correctness." This form of communication is hailed as courageous by his followers. It is a form of entertainment on the reality television programming. 
It's time to take off the disguise. Lack of political correctness is nothing more than passive-aggressive bullying and hateful speech. The president-elect's expert use of this form of communication has unleashed a world of hate and bigotry. 
In order to survive, we need more thoughtful listening and empathy in our speech, not less, or our nation will burn from within as Rome. 
We've had an opportunity to see the president-elect up front and personal for 18 months. When someone says who he is, believe him. 
Carol Latta 
Rockport 
Investigate Alzheimer's voters 
The Nov. 8 BDN article about an Alzheimer's patient who voted should concern all Americans regardless of where they stand on the political spectrum. I spent my professional career in Philadelphia, New York and Washington, D.C. I served as a federal prosecutor among other positions in the government and in the private sector. What happened to the woman in the article is a variation on what big city ward heelers call "four legs in the booth." This could be voter fraud and elder abuse and those responsible should be held accountable for their conduct. 
I think the patient was used in the most callous way. The shoulder shrug response of the facility administrators and the Bangor city clerk is unconscionable and unacceptable. I don't think I'd be going out on a limb to suggest that this was not a singular occurrence. 
I love my country. It is fine to wave the flag --that's easy. But the veterans we honor fought and died for our freedoms, including the right to vote our conscience. The person or persons who I think voted for the woman are un-American, and they dishonor our veterans. 
If it were up to me I would convene a federal jury to get to the bottom of what happened. One stolen vote is one too many. I will be interested to see if the U.S. attorney's office in Maine takes action. If it doesn't take action, we will have taken another step on a slippery slope. 
Alan Lieberman 
Trenton 
Medicare on the chopping block 
Just after the election, House Speaker Paul Ryan has suggested he will move quickly to phase out Medicare along with Obamacare, in line with his long held position on the subject. Did anyone believe that Donald Trump would allow no cuts to Medicare? His transition website has already flipped, and now he is in lockstep with Ryan. 
What's more, the House of Representatives, including Rep. Bruce Poliquin, has previously, but unsuccessfully, voted to turn it into a voucher program. Ask Poliquin about it, and he may either play dumb or try to baffle you with a lot of talk of vouchers for seniors and not harming current enrollees. You might consider being highly skeptical about that. And you might consider making your opinion known about it sooner, rather than later. 
Gail Marshall 
Mount Desert 
Animal cruelty at fairs 
Several years ago, while attending Fryeburg Fair, I had the occasion to sit in at the oxen pull. I was appalled at the oxmen's use of the "stick." A rigid pole used to strike the oxen about the face. The oxen would cringe, blinking their eyes in anticipation of the hit. Finding this not an enjoyable experience, I left. 
This year at the Fryeburg Fair, I sat in at the oxen pull. Sadly, nothing has changed for these gentle creatures. Still oxmen use a stick, and not lightly, on the still cringing oxen. Even my husband left because it was not comfortable for him to watch. 
After relating my feeling to an acquaintance who frequents the Common Ground Fair, I was told that an oxman there had beat an ox so badly it suffered a horrible eye injury. This was in front of a crowd. Where are the advocates against this type of treatment? 
There was nothing so beautiful to see as a well trained animal happy in its work. I know that when a stick has to be raised to create enough fear or pain in order to accomplish the desired result, there is a hole in 
the training of the animal or it is being asked beyond its physical capability. A stick should be a guide, not a weapon. The fair associations must police these inhumane acts. They are a poor advertisement, not to mention example. Paula Leavitt Troy 
Veterans aren't criminals When did it become OK to treat our veterans like common criminals? Between the quarterly scheduled meetings with a nurse, counting of pills and random urinalysis, I am beginning to wonder if the 13 years of honorable service means anything at all to the Department of Veterans Affairs. 
Somebody needs to remind the VA that it exists because of veterans, not the other way around. We served this nation, and dedicated our lives to this nation. To treat us like common criminals is wrong. David Littlefield Easton 
Trump better make us proud The Democrats are out for the next four years, and the Republican Party is in. President Barack Obama did a wonderful job of taking America out of a very deep hole, with no thanks to the Republican Party. The Republicans won the election in an unruly and much different style than has ever been seen before. But they are in. 
Now the Republican Party has four years to keep all those promises, and I may add, lies. They have four years to make America great again. If not, then all of them in the Republican Party can say goodbye to controlling this great country ever again. They have this chance, so they better not fail. 
I truly hope that the Republicans can do what they have said they will do. So President-elect Donald Trump has his chance to make America proud and also proud of him. Please don't let us down. Eugene Bowden Bucksport 
Copyright (c) 2016 Bangor Daily News 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Tuesday, Nov. 22, 2016: Medicare on the chopping block, Trump better make us proud, stop animal cruelty at fairs', Bangor Daily News (online), 21 Nov 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160CFABA2920F9F8 
