.COMments 
December 7, 2016 | Bangor Daily News (ME) 452 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Editorial, "Why Congress must investigate Russian involvement in US election": I'm not sure what evidence there is of Russian influence on the election other than the media stating it. Were the Russians doing the polling for NBC and CNN giving Hillary Clinton a convincing and easily lead road to the White House with 8 percent advantage over Donald Trump? Were paper ballots tampered by 
the KGB? Yes, please investigate and make sure every single ballot is recounted to validate the election results. --Kaliss It's no secret that Vladimir Putin prefers Donald Trump over Hillary Clinton. So how does a government 
influence another's elections? By spreading false information about the candidate it doesn't want to win the election and spreading false information to make the preferred candidate look better. In these days of the internet, it's quite easy to do by creating fake news stories and entire fake news sites. 
--ryanrrobbins 
Of course, the U.S. has never tried to affect elections in other countries, and if the U.S. did, it would totally be above board. --Robert Snow Democrats need a scapegoat. But what they really need is a mirror. They ran a lousy candidate. --huck fin The Russians aren't stupid. Vladimir Putin knows that the biggest threat to the security and well-being of 
the U.S. is the Republican Party. --Benito Incognito Who cares if Russia tried to influence the election? Who cares if our president-elect has no diplomacy 
skills? Move along, there is nothing to see here. 
--Rockport Voter 
Let's give this investigation as much time and effort as the fruitless Clinton investigations, and then see how they stack up. 
--Emilio Lizardo 
All the self-proclaimed patriots want to pooh-pooh Russian shenanigans and blame Democrats for even raising the possibility of Russian hacking and manipulation. Had Hillary Clinton won and had there been the the merest suggestion of foreign meddling, these same patriots would be all over it. There already is clear evidence of Russian gamesmanship, as revealed by multiple U.S. intelligence services. To not investigate the same would be the height of irresponsibility. 
--pizanos 
Something tells me Vladimir Putin is shaking his head in disbelief, asking if is this the U.S. that once was? 
--homemaine 
They should also investigate where the missing socks go from the dryer and where is my TV remote. 
--Mainer 007 
For Republicans, who for years were supposedly "protecting the vote," refusing to investigate the potential influence of Russia in an election is perfectly in keeping with the real purpose behind their "protect the vote" effort. That is, to get power by whatever means at their disposal, whether lying claims of voter fraud, outright cheating, or by suppressing and disenfranchising voters. 
--sdemetri 
Copyright (c) 2016 Bangor Daily News 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'.COMments', Bangor Daily News (online), 7 Dec 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1612414F9A6C4C28 
