
Letters for Monday, Sept. 19
Newspaper September 18, 2016 | Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Web Edition Articles (WI)
Section: Readers 606 Words
Letters for Monday, Sept. 19
Today's letter writers discuss one-sided media, Scott Walker and the 'me' society.

One-sided reporting

I never considered myself a Democrat or a Republican, but I am fairly conservative. I have voted for people in both parties many times.

In reading the Sept. 15 Journal Sentinel, it just reinforced my thinking of how the media has made war on the Republican Party in their attempts to sway voters. One article after another lambasting Republican Donald Trump, Republican Gov Scott Walker, Republican J.B. Van Hollen. Is there a pattern here?

Why is it that our governor is not just Gov. Scott Walker? Why does he or any other political official have to be labeled with their party affiliation when mentioned in the newspaper, especially if it is not a flattering article? I thought that I cast a vote for Walker for governor, not Walker for Republican governor.

I have stopped watching late night talk shows because they have deemed it their mission to have at least half of their monologues dedicated to bashing Republicans. I watched those shows to entertain me, to make me laugh, not to listen to one joke after another about the Republican Party. I loved watching Johnny Carson because he was funny, but also did not get overly political or one-sided. He was there to entertain me, not be a free commercial for a political party.

I love reading the Journal Sentinel, but will I have to stop reading it also because it has lost it way, and is so politically motivated? Many of the articles are becoming one-sided editorials instead of reporting the news with an open mind.

Richard Gayan

Milwaukee

Impeach Walker

Following the lead paint possible "pay for play" disclosures, accompanied by the false voter fraud scare and J.B. Van Hollen's inappropriate human resources practices while serving as attorney general, it is time for the impeachment of Scott Walker.

Impeachment does not necessarily lead to removal from office, but the governor now needs to provide answers to all of these seeming serious and perhaps illegal actions on his part. Will this be enough to finally warrant a full investigation of the governor and his direct reports?

Unfortunately, the state Legislature's Republican leadership seems to be equally involved, so impeachment seems unlikely, but it is called for and a far better solution than another recall.

Rob Guilbert

Brown Deer

A 'me' society

We have become a me society and it has affected all of us.

Ask not what your country can do for you but what can you do for your country. How far have we fallen from this historical statement in the past 50 or so years? We have become a society of me instead of we. How many problems occur in our everyday lives that have arisen from this me attitude? Our workplace has never been more challenged from this mindset ingrained in our society more than any other economic factor.

Facebook, Twitter, Snap Chat, Hollywood, magazines, sports, talk shows, realty TV and sadly the Kardashians have become a fixture of our lives that has promoted this me mindset. It's a trillion dollar monster affecting us, the economy and our country.

This more than anything has undermined us as a society and a nation and it's time for a change that begins within each of us. Most but not all of society's members spend their lives taking care of themselves instead of one another. The new catch phrase these days is "perfect."

We are socialized into creating a perfect world for ourselves instead of a better one for others. This November we have an election and a decision to make. Which candidate best personifies the me attitude? Either choice seems to represent a very scary outcome.

Perfect.

Grant Mc Govern

Sun Prairie
© 2016 Journal Media Group
