
Letters for Sunday, Dec. 18
Newspaper December 17, 2016 | Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Web Edition Articles (WI)
Section: Readers 1979 Words
Letters for Sunday, Dec. 18
Today's letter writers discuss the state Department of Corrections, Milwaukee Public Schools, the Mitchell Park Domes, Donald Trump and Cathy Stepp.

Reform needed at DOC

The reports of four deaths at the Milwaukee County Jail this year, as well as reports of abuse and neglect at the Lincoln Hills and Copper Lake Juvenile Detention Centers are deeply disturbing. Citizens of Wisconsin should see these incidents as red flags indicating that the Wisconsin Department of Corrections has grave systemic problems.

The purpose of a "house of corrections" is to correct, not to make things even worse. The DOC is failing because this primary mission is not being followed in critically informing its decisions and practices. For example, Lincoln Hills was a bad idea to begin with because these youths are housed so many hours from their families. The separation adds to the trauma and makes it even harder for kids with issues to get back on track. What kind of message are these kids internalizing when their families can no longer visit them?

The only way to fix this, and to address so many other problems in the DOC, is for our governor, legislators, Corrections Secretary John Litscher and other DOC officials to re-imagine how to align the department's policies and practices with the mission of correction. We are dealing with human beings. The way that inmates are treated matters and does have an impact on rehabilitation. We all should be concerned about a system that adds trauma to inmates who likely will be getting out of prison or jail at some point. Instead of retribution, we should focus on rehabilitation.

Criminal justice reform has been successful in many other states across the United States, precisely because it is focused on the mission of correction. These reforms have saved states tens and in some cases hundreds of millions of dollars. Yet, Wisconsin has opted out of most reforms. Why? With a DOC budget of $1.3 billion each year, Wisconsin's status quo should concern all Wisconsin taxpayers.

Rebecca Moczulewski

New Berlin

Juvenile prisons hurt youths

The crisis at Lincoln Hills is an opportunity for Wisconsin to be a leader in how we treat young people who come into contact with the juvenile justice system.

"Solutions" such as the proposed 36-bed facility for non-serious juvenile offenders will not help anyone ("Views clash on treating juvenile offenders," Dec. 8).

These approaches waste taxpayer dollars, destroy families and communities, hurt young people and do not improve public safety.

Young people sentenced to juvenile prison are 37 times more likely to be arrested again as adults, compared with similar youths who are not caught or put into the system. Confinement also negatively affects the development of maturity, impulse control and resilience — all necessary for learning and making good decisions.

Confinement continues to hurt youths even after they are back in the community. Detained youths are less likely to complete high school and more likely to be incarcerated later in life.

There are better options. Alternatives to detention, especially positive youth development approaches that keep kids in their homes and communities, offer youths a real chance at success, making them more likely to graduate and less likely to return to the justice system.

Let's turn this crisis into a transformation. When Wisconsin's young people succeed, everyone benefits.

Kathy Park

Chief Executive Officer

National Council on

Crime and Delinquency

Madison

Replace the Domes

We believe that the Mitchell Park Domes have outlived their purpose and should be replaced with something that will generate more income than the present structure. Something that is a definite reflection of who we were and who we are. Something that should absolutely be part of our Milwaukee heritage and history.

Build a complex that pays homage to the tribe of people who lived just down from that hill, and allow this endeavor to be part of the great resurgence of the valley.

With help from the Potawatomi Hotel & Casino, construct an authentic Indian village with tepees, cooking sites, tanning sites and the multitudes of the many cultural, every-day events that comprised the daily lives of our Native Americans. In other words, a massive indoor museum that highlights our true beginnings, a project that is long overdue.

As we all know, Wisconsin's true wealth lies in its great heritage. Who better to guide this project than the Potawatomi tribe that lived just below the hill that now houses the Domes?

The city of Milwaukee does not now have any such tourist attraction other than the second floor of the Milwaukee Public Museum. Let us consider what we believe to be an excellent way to use the land that now houses the Domes.

Jim and Mary Ann Nekich

Franklin

Helping kids thrive

In response to Jay Miller's commentary, I invite him to come to Milwaukee and drive from Holton St. west on North Ave., Locust St. or Center St. (watch out for the potholes) ("MPS board has to go," Opinions, Dec. 12).

When he sees the abandoned buildings and gaping empty lots, take a right or left and just drive around the neighborhood a bit. Take in the deplorable housing, including many boarded-up homes. Now imagine how the many kids who live in these conditions can thrive in school.

There are many things the governor and state legislators can do to help out those in poverty in Milwaukee and improve childrens' ability to thrive, but the last thing we need is for suburban legislators to "act boldly — on an expansive basis" to take away local control and "reform" underperforming schools.

I'm not saying that the schools can't improve. Our extremely qualified superintendent knows this and is putting a comprehensive plan into place. It will take time. Perhaps the union should have spent less time protecting the 2% of incompetent teachers, but the 98% are doing a yeoman's job in a very challenging situation. They deserve recognition (including commensurate compensation) for the dedicated work they do every day and the long hours they put in to do one of the hardest and most important jobs in our country.

Here are just a few things the governor and the Legislature can do to improve the learning environment for kids in poverty:

Ensure that everyone, not just the kids themselves, has health insurance.

Enact legislation to reduce the number of parents going to prison when community rehabilitation or sanctions are more effective.

Provide the money our mayor asked for to get rid of the blighted and abandoned homes instead of throwing a fraction of what is needed our way after the crisis in Sherman Park.

Actually listen to our competent legislators representing Milwaukee who know what is needed but who are not consulted and whose ideas are not even considered because, heaven forbid, they are Democrats. They know much better than state Rep. Dale Kooyenga (R-Brookfield) and state Sen. Alberta Darling (R-River Hills) about what Milwaukee needs because they live in these neighborhoods and were elected to represent us.

Eleanor Harris

Milwaukee

Who controls the money?

To Jay Miller, who wrote, "MPS board has to go" (Opinions, Dec. 12):

You don't live in Milwaukee, so why are you slamming Milwaukee Public Schools and its School Board? Private voucher advocates are only concerned with who will get to control taxpayer money.

It's not about the quality of an education, the union or the School Board. People who want to send their children to private schools should do so. But don't expect the taxpayers to pick up the tab. My friend, who sent her children to a private school complained, "I pay taxes and have to pay school tuition, too. I should have tax dollars for my children's education."

I disagree. Tax dollars should go only to public schools because they accept everyone. Private school is a choice that anyone who can afford it may choose. This is a fight about who controls taxpayer money.

To private school advocates: Don't try to claim it's about the teachers, the union or the School Board. Today, private school CEOs are able to make millions of dollars from public school money. Taxpayer dollars were never intended to pay for school administrators to enrich themselves.

Patricia Sumnicht

Milwaukee

Not optimistic on Trump

A recent letter writer referred do Donald Trump as "a smart, decent, honest human" ("Disappointed Democrats," Letters, Dec. 12).

I won't spend time rehashing facts that can refute the honesty part, because that has been done time and again and is available for all to see and hear on a daily basis. Trump was elected by a voter base made up of equal parts of wanting someone anti-establishment, never Hillary Clinton and not yet ready for a woman.

It continues to astonish me how people could look the other way on his many transgressions and still vote for him. I did not, and do not. However, he will soon be my president and everyone else's president, and I will respect him and support him as that, with a certain nervousness and folded hands toward Heaven going forward.

I think columnist E.J. Dionne Jr. put it quite well in a very recent column ("Trump can't wait to sell out his base," Opinions, Dec. 12).

Trump campaigned on helping the middle class regain jobs and footing, on cleaning up Wall Street, etc., etc. However, everyone he has so far filled his cabinet with supports agendas that are quite the opposite.

While I'm not quite sure what these people expected when they voted for him, I do know what they wanted from him, and, for the love of God, I hope they are not greatly disappointed in the end. Of course, I want many of the same things, and he is my president as well.

I, however, don't share their optimism. I could not forgive or ignore his past on voting day.

Jeff Wekwejt

Cudahy

Don't blame Stepp

Jim Carlson is right about Department of Natural Recources Secretary Cathy Stepp ("Stepp out of step," Letters, Dec. 4).

But we should give her a break. The DNR's agenda is Gov. Scott Walker's, not hers.

Protecting our natural resources is evidently not the DNR's primary agenda if it interferes with business. In matters of policy, Stepp's task is to salute smartly, say, "yes sir," and follow instructions. We should give her credit for doing that well.

Jim Winkelmann

Waukesha

Paying student athletes

I would agree that it is time to reconsider the distribution of the huge profits received by colleges from their athletic programs, as advocated in a Dec. 13 commentary ("It's time to pay student athletes," Opinions).

I do have an issue with the writer's view, when he said, "The only compensation they receive is free college tuition." I believe that is the biggest asset they receive and it is their responsibility to see that they fulfill the gift with a graduation and a degree that will give them the life skills to move forward.

It also should be the responsibility of the college, using these profits, to provide four years of intense counseling to walk these young people through their life choices to include the skills of daily living and financial planning beyond Finance 101.

My next suggestion would be to establish trust funds for these athletes payable upon graduation or their 30th birthday, something wise grandfathers did many years ago realizing the folly of youth. The trust fund money is returned to the scholarship fund and the athlete should be made to reimburse the money used for his or her scholarship.

How long would it take to get a message to the next generation that "there is no free lunch"? The gift of a scholarship needs to be fulfilled and repaid by being a contributing person in this society. Yes, athletes should be paid, but how? Let's use some common sense and establish what is really rightfully theirs.

Geri Zehren

Port Washington

Silence on Russia?

How is it many of our elected officials were intensely fixated on practically nonexistent voter fraud among residents but are strangely silent on our own CIA's findings of Russian election tampering?

A. Jones

Milwaukee
© 2016 Journal Media Group
