
Letters for Sunday, Oct. 16
Newspaper October 15, 2016 | Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Web Edition Articles (WI)
Section: Readers 1954 Words
Letters for Sunday, Oct. 16
Today's letter writers discuss the election, third party candidates, Act 10, Milwaukee's municipal court, values and the minimum wage.

Elections are fair and honest

Since 2004, I have been an election observer and a supervisor of election observers in Wisconsin.

I have seen the election process up close. Chief election inspectors and their poll workers are honest and conscientious. Observing our elections is a sight to behold. Democracy in action. The process is smooth and without fraud.

Yes, without fraud. Cases of voter fraud in Wisconsin and elsewhere in this country are few and far between. Republicans want voters to believe that they "win the ideas debate" and only lose when Democrats have the benefit of fraud. Neither of these positions is true despite their belief by millions in this country. Majority rules, whether you like the results or not.

And now Donald Trump, losing an election on all grounds, wants us to believe that the election is "rigged." This takes the GOP strategies of voter suppression, gerrymandering and allegations of voter fraud to another level.

The question that I have for the believers in voter fraud is this: Don't you think in this day of smart phones and 24/7 media that if voter fraud was so rampant, that someone, somewhere would have captured something and posted it by now for all to see?

Our elections are fair and honest. If you don't believe me, go sign up to be a paid poll worker or volunteer as an election observer. Maybe then we can restore some common sense in this country and start addressing the real problems that we face in this world.

Timothy B. Daley

Union Grove

The nominee they deserve

To paraphrase an old saying: political parties don't get the nominee they want, they get the nominee they deserve. The Democrats have Hillary Clinton because, for the most part, the Democratic base stirs awake about every four years and looks around for a reasonable contender.

Clinton's been running in the background at least since her 2008 presidential campaign. So she fit. In between years, it's usually hard to get Democrats aroused and they lose congressional seats in the mid-term elections.

This is not the case in Republican-land. I've been voting for 50 years. About 25 years ago, I recognized the emergence of the talking heads and the growing effectiveness of the 24/7/365 tirade of Republican groupthink diminishing respect for the role of government, politicians and particularly selected political opponents.

In the name of salvation and prosperity for all who believed, the GOP has been promising to return America to the longed-for yesteryears of "Leave It To Beaver" and "Smallville," which, of course, is wonderful wonderful; but never existed. This storyline resonated in target audiences and gave birth to the Republican base, which gave birth to the tea party, which gave birth to political obedience and take-no-prisoners partisan politics. (And, No Martha, it is not the same for both parties.)

The Republican Party is currently addicted to its base. And the party has the nominee it deserves.

Bob Heritsch

Brookfield

Send in the clowns

Isn't it rich, isn't it weird, our country has two candidates, but neither revered?

It is almost embarrassing to watch the "debates" when both candidates seem to concentrate on personal mud-slinging rather than the issues at hand. Considering the importance of the office they are seeking, it is understandable why this type of childish behavior does not necessarily register favorably with the American public. Under the circumstances, perhaps we should hold those debates on a playground or possibly in a circus arena.

And then we have the famous slogan "Make America Grate Again." No, I did not spell "great" incorrectly. With the present candidates, my spelling just seemed to make more sense.

Where is the integrity we have the right to expect from our candidates, in fact from any elected official? Unfortunately, we only have two choices for president in November, and it is difficult to sing the praises of either one since they both carry a great deal of baggage into the oval office.

But perhaps we could sing using the lyrics of a well-known song: "Send in the clowns. Don't bother they're here."

Lois Malkasian

Mequon

Vote for the best candidate

In the debates between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump, the elephant in the room is the absence of Green Party candidate Jill Stein and Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson.

Ever since Ross Perot garnered 19% of the vote in 1992, the Commission on Presidential Debates put forth a ridiculous 15% polling threshold that no third party or independent candidate can meet. It's a catch-22 scenario. Without the coverage, you can't get the poll numbers.

The commission is a non-profit 501(c)(3) tax entity. Jointly controlled by the Democratic and Republican parties, it is bipartisan in its resolve to keep other voices out. In 1988, the League of Women Voters exited the duopoly presidential debate farce.

I'll vote for Jill Stein. Neither major party candidate meets my minimum standards. My vote will not be "wasted." It is a statement of integrity and support for the candidate on the ballot I consider most worthy. Shame on those who cast aspersions on citizens such as myself for voting our conscience.

Ranked choice/instant runoff voting — having an optional second choice on the ballot — would give third party and independent candidates a significant chance. As it is, vote for the best candidate on the ballot without fear.

Bernard Dalsey

Whitewater

Time to vote third party

In response to Emily Mills' column and Connie Hoogerland's letter on third party voting, I disagree that this is not the time to vote third party ("This is not the time to vote third party," and "Be quietly responsible").

I believe that this is exactly the time to vote third party. I keep hearing people say that a third party candidate can't win, yet so many are not happy with either of the main party choices. What if everyone who is unhappy with both candidates does choose a third party instead of voting for "the lesser of two evils"? I wonder if that would be enough support to make a difference.

I, for one, cannot support either Donald Trump or Hilarry Clinton and will not vote for them just because "one of them is going to win" as Hoogerland says. I am done holding my nose at the polls and voting for someone I believe will do less harm, and will vote for someone I think will actually do good.

If you think Trump or Clinton is that person, then by all means vote for one of them, but if not, do not let anyone tell you that you are wasting your vote by voting for a different candidate.

Karin Grant

Menomonee Falls

Teachers left out

The article on Act 10 indicates a lack of understanding of education and educators in most communities ("Upheaval in the classroom," Oct. 9).

I've been retired for 30 years, but I had a 30-plus year teaching experience. My goal in teaching was to impart knowledge and understanding to my students. I not only had an MA, but also an MS. In addition, I attended graduate work in economics and geography-geology to better teach. I taught a college credit economics course and served as department chairman for many years.

But I was, and am, a part of my community. I am a past president of the local historical society. I have been active in the American Legion and am a past commander. I also headed the local teachers union so that we had some input in the way schools are operated. In addition, I have held responsible offices in my church.

I have built two houses in this community — one of which we live in — from lumber from our own forest property. Both pay taxes each year to support public needs.

I am still in contact with many former students, some of whom have had great success and some with less, but good citizens.

The article approaches educators as part of a machine that transfers from place to place without roots. It is no wonder that small and medium-sized communities have trouble staffing their schools — teachers have been left out of sharing in education decisions.

Teaching is no longer an occupation with professional recognition by politicians.

Allan J. Mortenson

Ripon

City should provide lawyer

The City of Milwaukee should provide a lawyer for indigent defendants in Municipal Court.

The city already pays police to write tickets, assistant city attorneys to prosecute cases, judges to hear them and a collection agency to go after overdue fines.

But when it comes to helping impoverished defendants navigate the system and ensure that justice is done, the city keeps its fist wrapped tightly around its wallet. Defendants are not provided with lawyers even when facing incarceration.

It's absurd to believe that poor defendants can represent themselves adequately. Are they really expected to understand the rules of evidence, be willing and capable of confronting authority figures such as police officers and judges and have the ability to effectively cross-examine witnesses?

The city benefits greatly from the existing one-sided power structure — Municipal Court defendants provide revenue. Last year, for example, it cost $3.2 million to operate Municipal Court, which brought in revenues of $5.5 million. In 2014, the court cost $3.3 million; its revenue was $6 million.

The Common Council should allocate money in the 2017 city budget to fund a Municipal Court defense lawyer. Indigent defendants deserve professional representation. Justice demands it.

Gretchen Schuldt

Executive Director

Wisconsin Justice Initiative

Milwaukee

Standing up for values

There is hope for our country with young people such as those on the Hope Christian High School's football team.

After seeing the full page ad in the Journal Sentinel, I was amazed, inspired and thankful for young people who are willing to stand up for Christian values. In a very peaceful way, they expressed their concern and our need for equality with "liberty and justice for all."

Yes, they took a knee one week, but then stood arm in arm with opposing players beside them to show us how to strive toward racial equality. Now, as that full-page ad says, they "stand out of respect for all those who sacrificed for equality"and "as a continuing symbol to our unity and commitment to the advancement of 'liberty and justice for all.' "

Let us encourage these students to continue to become leaders and work for their goals.

Well done, football players, especially for expressing yourselves and your cause in the ad on Oct. 7.

Janet Petesch

Glendale

Hateful, shocking cartoon

The editorial cartoon showing the "speakership" (Paul Ryan) in a boat leaving a "sinking rat" (Donald Trump) was stunning, hateful and shocking.

To call a presidential candidate a "sinking rat" simply defines the author as ignorant, angry and devoid of common decency. How does this portray our democracy as the greatest government in the world whose citizens vote for what they believe is our best path forward for freedom, prosperity, unity and a path to unite us all to achieve even greater standards of success and unity for the next generation?

This editorial cartoon comes from the Boston Globe. The Journal Sentinel published it. Why?

Judith Koslo

Germantown

Forces aren't equal

Regarding John Peterson's letter of Oct. 10, I disagree with his assertion that government interference with free market forces is not the answer to minimum wages ("Misguided opinion," Letters).

Free market forces can work well only when opposite sides are of equal strength. This is far from the reality of lowly paid workers and corporate employers.

There are many single mothers, some with bachelor's degrees, trying to raise children in acceptable housing on a minimum wage income. Their rents rise but their income does not.

If the minimum wage had received annual cost-of-living increases, we wouldn't face the mess we are in now. Peterson should study the last two centuries of American labor history.

Ken Johnson

West Bend
© 2016 Journal Media Group
