
Letters for Sunday, Oct. 23
Newspaper October 22, 2016 | Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Web Edition Articles (WI)
Section: Readers 1864 Words
Letters for Sunday, Oct. 23
Today's letter writers discuss David A. Clarke Jr., the election, voter ID, voter fraud and health care costs.

Your ballot will count

While election observers are nothing new, this may be the first time we are seeing a presidential candidate calling on supporters to become poll watchers because he says there will be massive cheating.

The greatest danger of this rhetoric is not that it is false, although there is virtually no evidence of voter impersonation in Wisconsin. It's that it will keep people from voting.

Wisconsin voters should not be intimidated because we have safeguards to prevent observers from disrupting the voting process. In our state, election observers must sign in with their name, address and affiliation, if any. They may not wear buttons or clothing referring to a candidate or party. They must stay in a designated area, and they may not speak directly to voters, photograph voters or poll lists, or interfere with the voting process. If they have a concern, they need to address it with the chief inspector, and if they violate these rules, the chief can have them removed.

Any observer who wants to challenge a person's right to vote will have to state under oath what specific information he or she has indicating the individual is not qualified to vote. "She looks too young" or "his name sounds foreign" are not acceptable charges.

The League of Women Voters of Wisconsin places observers in the polls, and their reports provide valuable information about how new laws and procedures affect voters. We welcome anyone to volunteer as an observer. You can sign up at www.lwvwi.org.

If more people spent time in the polls they would be impressed — as our volunteers are — by the high level of professionalism of our election officials and the rigorous safeguards that ensure a fair election. That's why Wisconsin voters can feel confident their polling place will be well-managed and their ballot will be counted.

Andrea Kaminski

Executive Director

League of Woman Voters of Wisconsin

Madison

Election will be legitimate

So now we come to three weeks before the election and the Republican nominee is threatening on national TV that he may reject election results, stating that the election is rigged ("Trump balks at vow to honor vote result," Oct. 20).

Of course the election has not yet taken place, so how can anyone claim that there is some kind of widespread voter fraud?

But we here in the United States of America, and at hundreds of other democracies throughout the world, have a process called free and open elections (don't tell that to the disenfranchised people affected by voter registration restrictions). This is a pillar of our society; has been since the birth of our nation.

You don't have to be a nasty woman or man to object to casual references that our election will not be accepted. Our leaders have made great efforts to assure that due process is followed for this election, as they have in the past. Let's get on with the business of electing legitimate leaders.

James Fleischmann

Middleton

What if Trump wins?

I'm curious. If Donald Trump wins the election, does that mean the process is still rigged?

Jeff Hebert

Franklin

Rigging elections?

"Rigged elections," said one presidential candidate ("Trump balks at vow to honor vote result," Oct. 20). What about congressional redistricting (aka gerrymandering) and the many recent voter registration laws?

Ronald Wright

Milwaukee

Thank poll workers

There's an old saying, "It's a poor workman who blames the tools." I'm reminded of that saying this fall as various campaigns warn ominously of election fraud. That baseless talk treats unfairly a really fine group of people: our poll workers.

These volunteers attend hours of training and put in long hours for little pay on election day to ensure our voices are heard. They keep the the polling places functioning smoothly, greet us, answer our questions, instruct new voters and navigate constantly changing regulations about polling day procedures and voter eligibility.

This ugly election year they also may face suspicious scrutiny from citizens who are alarmed about a possible stolen election. Poll workers aren't conspirators trying to undermine our democratic form of government; they are civic-minded people whose hard work is essential to the election process.

My experience of poll workers has been overwhelmingly positive. They are helpful and cheerful and, in the best cases, help election day feel like the special event it is.

We should be celebrating people like this, not casting suspicion on them with unsupported allegations. On Nov. 8, when you're picking up your "I Voted" sticker, remember to thank the people who made that moment possible.

Patrick Perez

Menomonee Falls

Impeach Clarke?

Milwaukee County Sheriff David A. Clarke Jr. puts the peace and order of our community in grave danger with his inflammatory words. Describing our time as one to take up "pitchforks and torches" for any reason, is a call to violence ("Clarke sounds call for popular revolt," Oct. 17)!

Do we have to wait until the next election in 2018 to "pitch" him out? I fully support our First Amendment rights to free speech. But when an elected official calls people to "arms"— that's what pitchforks and torches are — he is certainly encouraging lawless behavior.

Is there a process in county government to impeach him? While he's campaigning and making incendiary statements, prisoners are dying in his jail under alleged horrible neglect and our community is under threat by his statements.

Eileen Ciezki

Milwaukee

Russian interference

I find it ironic that the Republican candidate for president makes claims of media rigged elections as he embraces Russian interference through illegal email hijacking and providing them to Wikileaks.

Jan Schlabowske

Milwaukee

Real work is governing

After the last month of electioneering is completed, the real work of governing begins.

A word of caution may be well worth considering. Let us not demonize the candidates so dramatically that none of us will trust them to govern. The reality is that someone will be elected to each of the hundreds of offices.

At least we can say for each of them that they had the courage to put themselves in the position of being besmirched at a level that is indeed consequential.

Denigrating people so harshly in the election process actually may contribute to the challenges of elected officials coming together across party lines after the election. The bottom line is not getting elected; the bottom line is governing.

Karl Hertz

Thiensville

Why voter ID?

Kudos to Republicans who have stepped forward, including Wisconsin's own Paul Ryan, to denounce Donald Trump's pre-election claim of possible widespread voter fraud.

Ryan and his party have the facts to back them up. In "The Truth About Voter Fraud," the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University School of Law cited national voter fraud incident rates between 0.00004% and 0.0009%. An August study by the Washington Post found 31 credible cases of impersonation fraud out of more than 1 billion votes cast in elections from 2000 to 2014. Arizona State University studies in 2012 and 2016 found similarly low rates. Election officials across the country overwhelmingly agree with the research, based on their actual experience of running elections.

But, wait. If Ryan and his party (except for Donald Trump) agree that voter fraud is virtually nonexistent, then why have Republican legislators across the country enacted highly restrictive (and expensive) voter ID laws to prevent "voter fraud"? In Wisconsin, this included passing some of the strictest voter ID requirements in the country, reducing early voting and restricting college students' access to the ballot.

Surely, these laws weren't designed to make it more difficult for college students, minorities and the elderly (people who tend to vote Democrat) to cast their vote. That would be appallingly unpatriotic and fly in the face of our democracy.

So, I guess I'd ask our Wisconsin legislators and their party leader, Ryan, to clear up any confusion by telling us whose rhetoric regarding voter fraud we should believe — that of the Republican Party or Trump?

And if we believe Ryan's party, then when can we expect those unnecessary voter ID laws to be replaced by laws that make it easier for all people to vote?

I won't hold my breath.

Jill J. Morin

Wauwatosa

Dump voter ID law

In the Oct. 17 editorial about the voter ID law, we are told U.S. District Judge James Peterson "offered a temporary solution to mend the system" ("Judge calls out DMV on voter ID," Opinions).

This is one of many patches offered in recent months to facilitate acquisition of IDs by people who are having trouble getting them. The editorial tells us that dumping the voter ID law so close to the election would cause confusion at the polls.

Seriously, can anything be simpler than conducting the voting process exactly as it had been conducted before the "completely unnecessary" law was enacted?

John Karkheck

Glendale

Too many hospitals

In this election year, there has been much comment on the Affordable Care Act.

Many people are blaming President Barack Obama about the high cost. In my mind, there is enough blame to go around.

Oddly enough, there has been little discussion about why these costs are rising. I have not heard any discussion about the supply side of this dilemma.

I live in the Cedarburg-Mequon area. There is hardly a busy corner that does not have a hospital or medical facility on it. I would imagine this is true throughout the entire area.

We have two major hospitals within five miles of each other. Children's just built a hospital within two miles of Columbia St. Mary's and Froedtert is building a large facility across the street from Children's.

What gives? Are people getting sicker? Is our population exploding? No, the hospitals are in a frantic duel to outsupply the competition. I am told the major hospitals have many empty beds and even empty floors.

This competition is very expensive. Many people have to staff these facilities, maintain the facilities and pay for them. I am not blaming the fine staffs who are employed at these facilities. However, I am blaming the administrators and the board of directors who want to take the American people into bankruptcy.

We cannot afford this nonsense. If the hospitals want to expand, show the public why this is necessary. Show us your costs to enter the hospital. The lowest cost may get the most new customers.

There may be competition among the hospitals, but it does not translate to lower costs to the consumer. Years ago, the Legislature had to approve major hospital expansions. The lobbyists were probably able to get the legislators to negate this law. We need it back in place.

Pete Hitler

Cedarburg

Profits and costs

I noticed a tiny article, "Insurer increases outlook," on the front page of the Oct. 19 business section.

In my opinion this is front-page news — a health care provider earning a $2 billion profit.

The only thing climbing faster than the health care industry profits is all our health care premiums. This tiny article makes it clear why.

Will our elected representatives in Washington ever take action to correct the real causes of rising health care costs? I doubt it. They don't like pay cuts, either.

Greg Zaharias

Greenfield
© 2016 Journal Media Group
