READERS WRITE Results were poorly presented 
October 27, 2016 | Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) Section: NEWS 
1118 Words 
Page: 12A 
OpenURL 
Link 
RIGGED ELECTION POLL QUESTION 
The front-page headline of the printed newspaper on Oct. 26 read:  Rigged vote claim splits state. That headline and most of the article gives the false impression that a solid portion of the Minnesota electorate believes this election is rigged or that Donald Trumps allegations in this regard are accurate. The actual question put to poll participants, however, was: Do you think it is right or not right for him to raise doubts about the legitimacy of the U.S. election? Whether Mr. Trump is correct in his assertion and whether he is right to bring up the question are obviously two different things. While few believe this election is actually rigged, any dolt has the right to raise the question. 
While my friends on the right gleefully accuse this paper of slanting toward the political left, this article gives false support to unsubstantiated positions of the right. I cant remember a worse example of journalism from this paper. 
David George Johnson, Sartell, Minn. 
The survey results reported that many believe the election may be rigged. The question, as posed, conflates two principles of the voting process: 
1) Votes will be fairly counted as cast by legitimate citizens. 
2) The process of judging candidates is subject to many influences. 
I have served as an election judge for many years and have never witnessed any fraudulent attempts to vote. There are extensive checks on the possibility, and consequences would be severe if they occurred 
 fines and years in prison. Claiming that votes will not be fairly counted insults the sincere, diligent work of 30,000 election judges in Minnesota (and those throughout the country). Determining who deserves your vote is the democratic process. 
Alexander B. Adams, Minneapolis 
Mark Halvorsons claim that In Minnesota, we can have confidence in our election outcomes is 
completely unfounded (Five reasons why you can count on the states voting system to be accurate, Oct. 25). In fact, the barriers against election fraud in Minnesota have been set so low that no one can prove or (in Halvorsons case) disprove that fraud is occurring. 
Mr. Halvorson supports his claim by citing lack of evidence for fraudulent voting and safeguards [that] are in place to ensure that only eligible voters cast their ballots. 
In light of the fact that Minnesota election laws permit no-excuse absentee early voting, online and same-day registration, vouching, and no voter ID requirement, what safeguards against fraudulent voting is Halvorson referring to? 
As for his contention that there is no evidence of widespread voter fraud based on the small number of convictions, its possible he is right. Its also possible that fraud is so pervasive that it has overwhelmed the legal systems ability to detect and prosecute it. 
Despite Halvorsons assurances, I lack the confidence that my vote will not be diluted or canceled by election fraud on Nov. 8. 
Peter D. Abarbanel, Apple Valley 
Rigged? Im sick of it! After the hanging-chad fiasco in Florida, I had questions about our election process, so I became an election judge. Your neighbors, Democrats and Republicans, will be working more than 16 hours on Election Day to ensure that your vote gets counted. Before Election Day, judges will verify that the voting machines read accurately. On Election Day, well be there early to set up. You may roll your eyes when we ask you to sign here, hand you a piece of paper and remind you to fill in the circle, but well be comparing the number of signatures to the number of receipts to the number of votes read by the machine. Everything must match. As you try to rush out the door, well be asking you to wait for the beep to ensure that your ballot was properly accepted. 
After hand-counting paper ballots at several recounts, I can assure you our voting machines are amazingly accurate. The only discrepancy I ever found was when our eyeballs used the test of voter intent when a lazy voter had used a check mark instead of filling in the circle. We counted the check; the machine had not. 
The most important fail-safe we have is day-of-voting registration. In some states, if your name 
is not on the roster, you cant vote. In Minnesota, no one can affect the election by altering the list. Whether there is a computer error, or some Russian hacker deleting names from the roster, we can fix it. With proper verification, and the law requires very specific documentation, you can register and vote at the polls. 
Your state, county and city employees, plus volunteers, are working diligently to insure a fair election. Rigged? Baloney! 
Rochelle Eastman, Savage 
Is Donald Trump right in raising questions about the legitimacy of the election? Absolutely. Consider the facts: 
 
Presidential elections are decided by the Electoral College, not the popular vote. Since every state has a minimum of three electoral votes, residents of less populous states are overrepresented in choosing our president. 
 
Election Day is on a Tuesday, rather than a Sunday, as in most other democracies. This can make it difficult for low-wage workers to cast their votes. (Though Minnesota is among the states to address this problem through early voting.) 
 
Many states discourage voting by the urban poor through voter ID laws, which make it difficult for those without drivers licenses to vote. 
 
Media bias: Trumps rise to the Republican nomination received crucial early aid from his free coverage by the media. 
While I would call these facts biases in our electoral system, rather than rigging, they do increase the possibility of a Trump presidency. 
Allan Campbell, Minneapolis 
PAISLEY PARK MUSEUM 
Thanks, from afar 
Regarding Paisley Park wins museum bid (Oct. 25): Thank you, city council and community members in Chanhassen who have finally worked through your concerns and issues surrounding the museum operation. No one ever expects to accommodate a Graceland or Abbey Road in their neighborhood, but when life deals you an iconic artist and opportunity, the world expects you to embrace it! My friend and I and our wallets will be there to personally thank you in November! If you want to return the favor, come visit our Mormon Tabernacle Choir someday. We can offer about the same amount of traffic, noise and musical talent, but perhaps less funk. 
Michael Brehm, Salt Lake City 
GARRISON KEILLOR 
Oh, ye of sour grapes 
The Bard of Lake Wobegon came down hard (Opinion Exchange, Oct. 26) on the Bard of Hibbing, who only wrote a few good love songs and some memorable phrases, is embarrassed and merely picks up a check and boards the bus after his performances. My, my. Which bard should be embarrassed? Not the one from Hibbing. 
Patricia Calvert, Rochester 
Copyright 2016 Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'READERS WRITE Results were poorly presented', Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities (online), 27 Oct 2016 12A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/documentview?p=AWNB&docref=news/1604A884FA790A38 
