Letters to the editor, Dec. 18 
December 18, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Section: Editorial 
1085 Words 
LETTER 
Page: A20 
OpenURL 
Link 
Consider the possibility of Russian meddling in election 
I agree with Stacy Washington (Election result deniers: Blame the Russians,  Dec. 16) on one point. Hillary Clinton was a flawed candidate who failed to connect with many voters, particularly those in key Rust Belt states. However, contrary to Washingtons attempts at obfuscation, this election has more taint than last months fish dinner leftovers. 
Given the close vote count in key states, it would be irresponsible not to consider the possibility that Russian cyber-meddling changed the outcome. It is also clear that Americans favored flawed Clinton over a reckless pathological liar by a margin of more than 2 million votes, that is unless you believe Donald Trumps ridiculous and irresponsible claim that millions voted illegally for Clinton. 
Washingtons comparison of Democrats to climate change deniers is equally absurd. Democrats have too much respect for the republic to make frivolous charges of voter fraud or improvident election result challenges: See Al Gore in 2000. The same cannot be said for Republicans: See the North Carolina gubernatorial election this year. 
Robert Z. Oksner  St. Louis 
Who won the popular vote is irrelevant 
We continue to hear and read that Hillary Clinton won the popular vote in the election. That fact is an irrelevant artifact of the Electoral College system. 
No one knows what the result would have been of an election decided on the outcome of the popular vote. The strategies of both campaigns would have been significantly different. 
A primary purpose of the compromise that resulted in the adoption of the Electoral College to elect the president was to level the field for the smaller states. In the presidential election, Clinton won the national popular vote by 2.9 million votes. She won the popular vote in California and New York by 5.9 million votes. Donald Trump won the total popular vote in the remaining 48 states and the District of Columbia by more than 3 million votes for a decisive election victory. 
This year the Electoral College system accomplished its mission. 
Paul Raidt  St. Louis 
Missouri should study whether 4-day school week is effective 
In 2009, the Missouri Legislature passed a bill affording school districts the option to operate on a four-day schedule. In 2012, when at least five districts had adopted the format, the Post-Dispatch explored the topic in Missouri schools test four-day week. 
One particular sentence in this article gave me pause: The overall effect on academics is unknown. 
Today, at least 18 Missouri districts have transitioned to the four-day format, a 100 percent increase over the previous year, yet research on the impact of this schedule on student outcomes is still limited and inconclusive. 
The four-day option, originally intended as a cost-savings tactic, has the potential to be positive to the extent that it achieves its purpose, and does not produce negative outcomes. The only way to know this is through rigorous evaluation. 
Currently, if a four-day district meets at least two fewer annual performance standards in the two years following implementation, the district must revert to a five-day week. Importantly, the policy does not require measurement, nor does it safeguard against impact beyond two years, though some research indicates a lift in academic performance after implementation may not last. 
In his campaign, Governor-elect Eric Greitens said, Every child in Missouri has the right to a first-rate education. Greitens will need to consider how we come to know what a first-rate education looks like. 
I believe this four-day school schedule merits investment in empirical research as a commitment to quality education, fiscal responsibility and sound policy design. 
Aliza Darnell  Brentwood 
Country has ignored problem of illegal immigration 
The editorial Rethinking sanctuary (Dec. 5) points out how leaders of sanctuary cities assert that U.S. immigration policies unjustly punish people whose only crime is to be in this country without proper authorization. 
Thats the problem: no proper authorization. We as a country have been turning a blind eye to this problem for so many years; it is the proverbial elephant in the room. Its not a simple problem, but historically it revolved around the double-edged sword: workers needed to pick our crops and our own citizens being unwilling to work at a seasonal job that did not and does not pay a living wage. 
At the same time, thousands of potential legal immigrants are patiently and willingly waiting in line to get 
into our country. 
Certainly there are many hardship cases justifying illegal entry into this country, but the cavalier statement that their only crime is being in this country without proper authorization minimizes the real problem. 
Tom Harig  University City 
Rational people question the answers given in the media 
The editorial The danger of fake news (Dec. 11) says, Rational humans know that Sandy Hook was a real-life horror. Rational humans do not question 9/11. Rational humans accept that the man who has been president for the past eight years is unquestionably U.S.-born. 
The dictionarys definition of rational reads thinking clearly, sensible, able to reason. In that regard, I question the editorials statement. 
So as not to be misunderstood, this letter in no way condones the actions of the few crazed, mentally disturbed individuals exemplified in the editorial, who formed their own premature opinions and who took the law into their own hands. 
Rational humans seek truth. As has been reported by the media thus far, the above examples remain open to serious questions. The questions are based upon implied, scientific and circumstantial evidence, and discrepancies which remain unanswered to this day. Some of the answers given are subject to even further questions. 
Until and unless questions are answered, truly rational people will reserve judgment and will keep their suspicions about not only the three examples cited, but a host of others as well. 
The editorial implies that a person who accepts the so-called legitimate news as reported without question, or who believes politically correct revisionist history, is rational. It does, in fact, make him just the opposite  irrational. 
Finally, Id add that congressional investigations seem to resemble a defendant in court having his or her family on the jury. There has to be a better way of getting to the truth. 
Bob Arnold  St. Peters 
> Read more letters online at STLtoday.com/letters 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Letters to the editor, Dec. 18', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 18 Dec 2016 A20 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1615B070C06643B0 
