Letters to the editor, Sept. 16 
September 16, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Section: Editorial 
1065 Words 
LETTER 
Page: A12 
OpenURL 
Link 
Photo IDs can help make elections fair, honest Is there a doubt in anyones mind regarding the Democratic opposition to changes in the voter ID laws? 
One look at the fiasco in the Democratic primary for the 78th Missouri House seat should certainly resolve it. No one knows for sure how many years the Democratic machine in St. Louis has been influencing 
elections. The same holds true for other major metropolitan areas. Under decades of Democratic local government, there has been more crime, more poverty, more welfare, fewer jobs and worse education systems. Yet still they keep getting elected over and over again. 
While photo IDs are not a cure for all forms of vote fraud, they certainly couldnt hurt to help make 
elections more fair and honest. Over and over again, I hear Democrats stating that there is no evidence of voter fraud. Well check out St. Louis city and put us in the headlines again  this time to support improved voter ID laws. 
David W. Stulce  St. Louis County Gun rights and voting rights unequal in Missouri Regarding Lawmakers override Nixon on guns and voter ID (Sept. 15): I find it ironic that on the same day they vote to protect ones right to carry a gun, the Missouri Legislature 
also votes to restrict ones right to vote. Apparently all constitutionally guaranteed rights are not created equal in their eyes. Cathy Guerrero  Chesterfield 
Headline about Trumps tax deduction plan is misleading I think that the headline Trump proposes new child care tax deduction for higher incomes (Sept. 14) is misleading. Why was it necessary to add the phrase for higher incomes? 
It is true that people who pay no taxes will not receive this proposed deduction. In other words, nothing will be deducted from nothing. However, people who do pay taxes and are eligible for deducting child care expenses could benefit from the proposed deduction. 
In emphasizing for higher incomes in the headline, it appears that the Post-Dispatch deliberately characterized Trumps proposal in the most unflattering manner possible. I think that the headline could have simply stated that Trump is proposing a new child care tax deduction. 
Donna S. Nonneman  Carrollton, Ill. 
Drivers keep butting in line on Highway 141 
Would you go to a Cardinals game, see a long line of people waiting to enter Busch Stadium, walk to the front of the line and cut in ahead of those waiting? Would you go to Walmart with its long lines and cut in front of the people waiting? I hope the answer in both examples is no. 
If that is true, then why do so many people think it is OK for them to bypass the line of cars on northbound Highway 141 to cut in at the last second to take the exit for the Page Avenue Extension? As a commuter who travels this road each day, I have been horrified to see the accidents, near-accidents and intense road rage caused by these people. 
In case you have not realized it, you are telling all of us who are waiting in line that you consider your life to be much more important than anyone elses. Because you are in a car, you somehow feel that you are not seen by others. Guess what: You are wrong. Everyone in that line can see who you are. 
So, the next time you are asking for help for your child at school, that teacher you are talking with may have been the driver you cut off the night before. The next time you are at the emergency room pleading for help, that nurse may have been the driver who you forced off the road when you almost slammed into her yesterday. 
Until people grow up or the local municipalities decide to add a double white line to separate traffic (as was done on Interstate 270 northbound at Interstate 70), this will continue to be a very dangerous section of road every night. I pray that happens before there are more accidents or that road rage escalates to a dangerous point. 
I ask that all of us take a second to think about others before we drive past a mile-long line of cars and dart in just in time to take the exit. 
Steve Starr  OFallon, Mo. 
Symphony should acknowledge whole story about Lindbergh 
This weekend, the St. Louis Symphony will celebrate Charles Lindberghs flight across the Atlantic by presenting Kurt Weills The Flight of Lindbergh. Although it is not mentioned in any of the Symphonys 
promotions for this performance, it is now accepted history that in the years before World War II and the Holocaust, Lindbergh was an anti-Semite sympathetic to the Nazis racial views. He was very public about this. 
It is past time for us to stop honoring Lindbergh without acknowledging the whole story. As a leading cultural institution, the St. Louis Symphony should take the lead here, perhaps by reciting the denouncement of Lindberghs wartime actions written by Weills collaborator, Bertolt Brecht, later added as a preface to this piece of music. 
Tom Noerper  Affton 
You really might be deplorable if  
I read the letter You might be deplorable if ... (Sept. 14), and it seemed to me that the writer had a limited amount of examples. That inspired me to use my time and space to give more examples. With a nod to comedian Jeff Foxworthy and Gary Duff: 
If you support a candidate who calls women fat pigs, slobs and dogs, you might be deplorable. 
If you support a candidate who disparages a Gold Star family and an American war hero, you might be deplorable. 
If you support a candidate who wants to ban people of certain religions from entering this country, you might be deplorable. 
If you support a candidate where white supremacists from coast to coast are giddy at the prospect of a President Trump, you might be deplorable. 
If you support a candidate who makes fun of people with handicaps, you might be deplorable. 
If you support a candidate who built his campaign on prejudice and paranoia, giving a national platform to hateful views and voices, you might be deplorable. 
Paul Burkhardt  Fenton 
Read more letters online at STLtoday.com/letters 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Letters to the editor, Sept. 16', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 16 Sep 2016 A12 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15F716E5087AF1B8 
