Letters to the editor, Jan. 4 
January 4, 2017 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Section: Editorial 
1062 Words 
LETTER 
Page: A14 
OpenURL 
Link 
Politicians in Washington bow down to Israelis bidding 
With all the criticism about the United Nations sanctioning Israel, with the United States abstaining, it is apparent that the tail continues to wag the dog when it comes to the Israeli/U.S. relationship. 
Doesnt anyone wonder why most of the rest of the world voted to condemn Israel for building more settlements and only the U.S. for years has prevented sanctions from occurring? There is no doubt that the American Israel Public Affairs Committee and the Zionists in Israel control the political climate in Washington, D.C. It doesnt matter which party, as long as money is given by AIPAC and other Israeli organizations to support the politicians, these people will stand ready with hands out and bow down to the Israelis bidding. 
It now appears that Donald Trump will be joining this same group of politicians. I thought Trump was going to put America first. That is hard to do when you have a country like Israel crying in its soup because it, at least temporarily, has stopped controlling the dog. When will America wake up and realize that Israel is a terrorist state? 
Richard E. Browning  Pacific 
Editorial excuses an attack on democracy in Israel 
First of all, the editorial Next steps for Israel (Dec. 28) lacks historical perspective. Israel gained control of the West Bank after Jordan attacked Israel in 1967. Unlike Russian occupation of Crimea or Iraqi occupation of Kuwait, Israel gained the territory in a defensive war. Prior United Nations resolutions did not stipulate return of all the territory since the 1949 border was a cease-fire line, not a negotiated boundary. 
Second, the editorial does not mention any Palestinian actions that have led to the current stalemate. The lack of peace is a direct result of the constant stream of Jew hatred and violence from the Palestinian territories, including shootings, stabbings, arson, car attacks and missiles. In the Palestinian press, schools, mosques and social media, Palestinians are urged to kill Jews, who are compared to pigs, dogs and vermin. The Palestinians refuse to accept a Jewish state no matter what its size. 
Finally, the editorial concludes that friends stage interventions to steer loved ones away from a reckless course. Obviously this refers to the Obama administration allowing a resolution that makes a peace settlement more difficult. If the world is going to set borders, the Palestinians do not need to negotiate. 
There are no consequences of Palestinian terrorism and hatred. It gives ammunition to those calling to boycott, sanction and divest from Israel, attacking Israel economically. Palestinians may demand that Israeli soldiers and politicians face prosecution. 
The world faces many problems, among them a bloody Syrian war and Iranian nuclear weapons. Instead of working on these problems, the U.N. has chosen to attack the only democracy in the Middle East. It is shameful that the Obama administration allowed or abetted this action and shameful that the Post-Dispatch excuses it. 
Laura Goldmeier  Creve Coeur 
Takes courage to proceed with death sentence 
I am shocked by Jim Halls commentary Gov. Nixon should commute all death sentences (Dec. 28). He was very explicit about giving his Christian viewpoint as reasoning for his argument. I now feel compelled to offer mine as a Christian as well. 
Somehow this whole issue has become a selfish expression of the writers and perpetrators personal feeling with no regard to the deep dark reality of the terror and torture brought into this young womans life by this man. Who speaks for her? 
Hall implies that somehow Jeffrey Fergusons remorse erases the pain, suffering and death he brought into a young and innocent life that night. That killer should have remorse unless he is a monster. He should also be ready to accept the consequence of a choice he made for his guilty self and an innocent other. 
My thoughts go out to those who have the courage to proceed with the execution of the death sentence. I am sorry that has become their job because of people like Ferguson. The right thing for the rest of us to do is to make a clear statement to the world that there are lines we do not cross in respect for the life God has given each of us. That takes courage, too. 
I do not willingly choose to be someone who has to advocate for the death of another. That is something criminals like this man have forced on the rest of us. But I do willingly choose to stand strong for those who have brutally suffered at the hands of very sinful men and women. God gives our leaders the responsibility to preserve a moral balance in this wobbly world. Too bad so many our our elected officials, judges and citizens do not have the moral strength and understanding to make that happen. 
I only know I am not going to choose to be like them. 
Nancy Matlock  St. Louis County 
Democrats plans come up short again and again 
It looks like the Democrats are at Plan E now to keep the presidency. Plan A: Win. Hillary Clinton lost the Electoral College by a significant margin. Plan B: Recount in swing states. Oops, the recount found more votes for Donald Trump in Wisconsin 
and found more votes than voters in some Detroit precincts. Tell me again that there is no voter fraud. 
Plan C: Pressure electors to change the vote they pledged to cast for Trump. Oops, more Clinton 
electors changed their votes than did Trump electors. 
Plan D: Attack Trumps business empire, hoping he will not take office. Good luck with that. 
Plan E: Blame Russia. 
Clinton lost. Get over it. 
Gary Duff  Swansea 
Remembers a kind act from Debbie Reynolds 
Quite a few years ago, I attended the Muny Theater performance of Irene starring Debbie Reynolds. It 
rained and the performance stopped. While the stage was being mopped, Reynolds came onstage, sat 
on a stool and gave an impromptu performance of songs and chatter. It was unexpected, which she 
didnt have to do, but she didnt want the audience to sit and wait idly. She was so gracious and 
entertained all of us. 
I have always remembered her kind act. 
Libby Sorkin Routman  St. Louis County 
> Read more letters online at STLtoday.com/letters 
Copyright (c) 2017 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Letters to the editor, Jan. 4', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 4 Jan 2017 A14 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/161B47508941BC58 
