Letters to the editor, Oct. 24 
October 24, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Section: Editorial 
1040 Words 
LETTER 
Page: A11 
OpenURL 
Link 
Early childhood development is crucial for Missouri 
Have you asked yourself what you could do to respond to the issues raised by the violence in Ferguson? 
My response is to vote for Amendment 3  The Early Childhood Health and Education Amendment. It proposes to set up a trust fund for children from birth through 5 years. The money will come from a tax on cigarettes. According to the Federation of Tax Administrators, Missouri has the lowest excise tax on cigarettes in the nation. Our rate is 17 cents per pack while New York has the highest at 435 cents. 
Two key reports have stated the importance of early childhood development. The Ferguson Commission Report is one. The For the Sake of All report is a second. This study led by Washington University looked at what could be done to improve the lives of African-Americans in the St. Louis area. 
How is Missouri doing in early childhood development? According to the National Institute of Early Education Research at Rutgers University, in 2015 Missouri had only 4 percent of 4-year-olds enrolled in public schools. In neighboring states, Kansas had 20 percent, Illinois had 27 percent, Arkansas had 39 percent and Iowa had 61 percent. 
John R. Wilkerson  St. Charles 
Changing constitution to fund transportation is a bad idea 
Illinois voters are being asked whether spending on transportation programs, enforcement and infrastructure should be protected under the Illinois Constitution. Protecting transportation funds for their intended purpose is important, but doing so through a constitutional amendment would be bad government. 
The Constitution should provide a general framework, not give preferential treatment to one essential need. Rather than protecting only transportation, the Constitution should protect funding for all essential state obligations  education, health care, public safety. 
The reason behind this proposed amendment is lack of adequate revenue to pay for state programs. The governor and Legislature are responsible for raising sufficient revenue to meet our state needs, preparing a budget and appropriating revenue accordingly. Both branches of government have failed in their jobs, so the Legislature chose to kick the revenue and appropriation issues to the voters when it comes to transportation spending. 
Other aspects of the amendment are also troubling. Transportation funds could never be used in the case of a state emergency, and this amendment takes the authority for appropriations and allocation of funds out of the hands of our elected public officials. Rigid constitutional language has had unintended negative consequences in the past for our state. 
The Legislatures current practice of diverting transportation funds into the general revenue fund should stop. Voters must now decide whether prioritizing transportation needs at the expense of all other competing needs warrants a constitutional amendment. And, whether locking these funds up, even in the case of a state emergency, is really in the best interests of Illinois residents. 
Mary Kubasak  Chicago 
President, League of Women Voters of Illinois 
Requiring picture ID to vote is bad public policy 
For the past 16 years, Americans have cast 1 billion votes in local, state and federal elections. In that time, a little more than 100 cases of duplicate voting have been discovered nationwide. Impersonating a voter or attempting to vote more than once in an election is a federal felony that carries a penalty of up to 5 years in jail and a $5,000 fine. 
Even in a close statewide election separated by only a few hundred votes, a voting conspiracy at the polls to swing an election would be difficult to pull off without discovery. 
Federal and state elections are conducted at the county and municipal level, and election officials work hard to ensure the voting process is conducted with fairness and integrity. Missourians should be concerned about voter turnout, not voter fraud. During the 2014 midterm election, only 28 percent of registered voters cast a ballot, 4 points below the abysmal national average. 
Proposed Missouri Constitutional Amendment 6 would place a needless burden on approximately 220,000 people statewide to show a picture ID before they are allowed to cast a vote. The intent of this proposition is clear: create barriers to voting among people who disproportionately dont vote Republican. 
In July, the U.S. 4th Circuit Court of Appeals found a North Carolina voter-ID law did just that, and struck down the law. Amendment 6 is bad policy. Dont enshrine it as law in the Missouris Constitution. 
Robert A. Gadon  Shrewsbury 
Womens Health Services Program is valuable 
When the Missouri Legislature recklessly defunded the Womens Health Services Program this past 
legislative session, it not only wasted $8 million in federal matching funds  opting instead to use $8 million of the states own money to fund the program  it potentially set up the state for even more costs associated with unintended pregnancies. 
Unintended pregnancies account for over half of all pregnancies in Missouri, and are associated with risks such as low birth weight, maternal depression and delays in receiving prenatal care. To reduce the number of unintended pregnancies, the Womens Health Services Program was started in 2007; this program is vital for many otherwise uninsured Missouri women, providing cancer screenings, birth control and STD testing. 
At the Contraceptive Choice Center at Washington University School of Medicine, many of our patients rely on this valuable program. As a staff member, I can personally attest to how important it is for these women to know they can receive preventative care and birth control. 
These unintended pregnancies produce a huge financial strain on the states Medicaid system. However, an evaluation of the Womens Health Services Program in 2016 found that the program reduced unintended pregnancies, resulting in total state and federal savings of over $7.5 million in 2015 alone. 
As the Department of Social Services begins the process for renewing the Womens Health Services Program, I urge all family planning supporters to speak out in support of this essential program. I know that the patients we see at the Contraceptive Choice Center would be extremely disadvantaged without this valuable program. 
Kristen Jones  St. Louis 
Division of Clinical Research, Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Washington University School of Medicine 
Read more letters online at STLtoday.com/letters 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Letters to the editor, Oct. 24', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 24 Oct 2016 A11 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16038D51E370E810 
