
The Public Pulse, Jan. 30: Dissension can be a good thing
Newspaper January 30, 2017 | Omaha World-Herald: Web Edition Articles (NE)
Author: Staff Writer Section: Opinion 1315 Words
The Public Pulse, Jan. 30: Dissension can be a good thing
Kintner had to go

We are proud of our Nebraska Legislature for forcing Papillion Sen. Bill Kintner to resign ("Kintner goes, stays true to character," Jan. 26 World-Herald). His misuse of state property and his immoral and deceitful behavior were compounded by his refusal to take personal responsibility for his actions.

Sadly, similar characters and dishonesty are being rewarded at the national level. We thank God that our Legislature is made up of many people who still insist that our leaders be people we can be proud of to represent us.

Marlene and Douglas Roberts, Omaha

Use qualified teachers

Thanks to Jan. 27 Public Pulse writer Bert Peterson ("Education too important for shortcuts") for bringing to our attention the details of Legislative Bill 568. State Sen. Steve Erdman of Bayard introduced this bill, which allows for a temporary teaching certificate for those with limited qualifications.

We have many great teachers in our state who were professionally trained in colleges and have completed rigorous requirements to earn their teaching certificates. It is not in our students' best interests to give just anyone a teaching certificate.

I urge all senators to reject this bill. It's time to support our great teachers.

Susan Tafini, Springfield, Neb.

Dissension can be a good thing

The Omaha Public Schools board should never be a rubber stamp or groupthink body. We had that type of board for too many years, and it was mean-spirited to any member who refused to go along, was undemocratic and ceded its responsibilities to the unelected administration.

The best decisions are made when everybody can speak freely and contribute. While it is important to have a unanimous vote on the new superintendent, he or she should not expect the board to acquiesce on every issue. Nobody expects the City Council to always go along with the mayor.

A healthy board is one with some split votes and consensus on other issues and one which listens seriously to its constituents.

James Enright, Omaha

The planet runs hot and cold

Jan. 21 Public Pulse writer Frances Mendenhall ("The climate change emergency") stated the ice shelves in Greenland are melting.

My questions to her are: Why is that island named Greenland and not some other name like Frozenland? Is it because it used to be a green, hospitable land? Ancient Norse settlements have been discovered there, and those folks were farmers for the most part.

Climate change on the Earth is cyclical and not necessarily impacted in large part by mankind.

John Anderson, Omaha

We're running out of time

Thanks to The World-Herald for the Jan. 17 article concerning climate change, challenging the belief that scientists are wrong or merely seeking fame ("Seeing thaw of Greenland's ice melts a climate-change skeptic).

In reality, the changes caused by global climate change are visible, dramatic and scary.

We can't afford to wait for more proof to convince us. We need to take action now to slow down the damage.

Laurine Blankenau, Omaha

A missed opportunity

While I served on the Environmental Quality Council in Nebraska from 2005 through 2009, the Environmental Protection Agency was issuing a new set of air-quality standards for the states based on "regional haze" emitted from power plants affecting national parks.

In 2009, the stakeholders on the council, such as the Nebraska Public Power District, reasoned that since Nebraska did not have a large national park, it could continue to pollute as usual.

I responded with logic about the health and welfare of all the human beings in Nebraska, let alone a national park. I was the lone vote to have NPPD clean up its emissions. The Nebraska attorney general would eventually sue the EPA, along with other red states.

While Nebraska was dragging its feet on installing scrubbers and updating technology in power plants, other states moved forward with the EPA mandate and created jobs, boosted their local economies and helped provide clean air for all Americans.

It is now 2017, and NPPD is still bellyaching about cleaning up its sulfur dioxide emissions from burning coal. Not to mention that the economic driver of clean energy is making coal somewhat obsolete. This is sad indeed.

Larry Bradley, Omaha

An expert in the field

We should all trust President Donald Trump on his voter fraud accusations because if there is one thing he knows about, it's fraud.

Steve Ialley, Omaha

We fought for those freedoms

Members of our armed services have sacrificed a great deal over the years to preserve the freedoms that Americans often take for granted.

But when President Donald Trump attacks one religious group, he attacks the freedom of religion. When he attacks the media and tries to restrict what they report on, he attacks the freedom of the press.

Doing this is insulting to all our service members, not honoring them, as Trump promised to do. If he wants to show his support of their sacrifices, he should honor his oath to defend the Constitution and its Bill of Rights, not pick and choose only the parts that fit his purpose.

Chuck Johanningsmeier, Omaha

Save your advice for the Democrats

I find the Jan. 20 World-Herald editorial, "The hard work of governing," advising Donald Trump on how he should govern as our new president to be most amusing.

Not that the suggestions weren't worthwhile, but rather than wasting space on suggestions for Trump, how about maybe advising the Democratic Party on how it can become something more than what it has evolved into over the past eight years?

A good starting place would be to point out that the party has been hijacked by Hollywood, liberal college professors, spoiled-brat Ivy League kids and the "victims," just to name a few.

I'm a husband, father, grandfather and veteran who paid union dues for most of my 50-year working career. Up until Barack Obama's second term, I usually voted Democratic because I felt that party served our best interests better than the Republicans.

But, as Ronald Reagan once said, I didn't leave the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party left me. Apparently a lot of other Democrats and former Democrats felt that way, too.

In spite of Trump's faults, he seems to be doing OK on his own. I'm sure he appreciates any advice that The World-Herald can offer him, but now it's time for The World-Herald to turn its attention to helping the Democratic Party.

Ken Krueger, Omaha

The not-so-great generation

I am almost 70, and I still remember the words my father said: "Remember to leave the world a better place for your children and grandchildren."

What I am witnessing now is a rush to grab all we can and not to care for what we leave for our children or grandchildren. It saddens me to see what is happening to our environment because of selfish greed and the attitude of "let's grab what we can at the expense of the generations that follow."

We moved from the Greatest Generation to the most self-centered generation, just in my short life span. Sad.

William Forsee, Bellevue

One way to combat road crew accidents

Reading the recent article about a road crew worker who died from his injuries after being struck by a car ("Prayers offered for injured city worker," Jan. 25 World-Herald) reminded me of signs I saw during my last road trip to the East Coast.

Several states had signs in construction areas similar to those I saw in Indiana. They read "Drivers who injure or kill a highway worker will pay a $10,000 fine and serve up to six years behind bars."

Such carelessness is inexcusable, and it's high time that Nebraska gets on board with a similar law.

Dennis Schafer, Omaha

A simple act could save your life

Buckle up. Almost weekly The World-Herald reports a car crash in Nebraska with fatal injuries.

It appears in most cases the deceased was not using a seat belt.

It is not that hard to buckle up. It also may be time for law enforcement to get tougher on seat belt enforcement.

Remember, the life you save may be your own.

Jerry Freeman, Omaha
Copyright, 2017, Omaha World-Herald. All Rights Reserved.
