
The Public Pulse, Sept. 18: Our state fair is a great state fair
Newspaper September 18, 2016 | Omaha World-Herald: Web Edition Articles (NE)
Author: Staff Writer Section: Opinion 1343 Words
The Public Pulse, Sept. 18: Our state fair is a great state fair
Death penalty wastes our money

As a proud, lifelong, conservative Republican, I'm glad that voters will get to decide the fate of a government program this fall. It's not often we get the opportunity to go to the ballot box and directly eliminate an entire Lincoln bureaucracy.

And this one especially needs to go. It costs $14.6 million every year ("Economist tallies death penalty's price tag," Aug. 18 World-Herald), and the last time it was successfully carried out in Nebraska was way back in 1997.

And even when it was briefly operational, it really wasn't accomplishing anything — it wasn't making Nebraska communities safer and it wasn't making life better for the citizens.

The government program I'm referring to is, of course, the death penalty.

Coming from a conservative perspective, I can't wait to go to the ballot box on Nov. 8 and vote to "retain." Not having the death penalty makes the government smaller, and that's a cause every Republican can get behind.

Matt Maly, Omaha

A permanent mistake

Humans make errors. When judging whether an accused person is guilty or innocent, a jury may set a guilty person free or send an innocent person to be executed.

But the consequences of making these errors are not equal. Releasing a guilty person may result in a subsequent crime — even a murder — but it is far worse for the state to kill a person who was innocent because executions are permanent.

Our state senators recognized the irreversible fault in using capital punishment and abolished Nebraska's death penalty in 2015. However, some Nebraskans want to reinstate capital punishment.

Voters will have to settle this issue in November's election.

It is essential that we vote to retain the repeal.

Robert Stoddard, Lincoln

State is IT illiterate

The Nebraska Accountability and Disclosure Commission released a report regarding State Sen. Bill Kintner's use of a government laptop computer that everyone should read.

While others are upset about the "ick" factor of the report, I am alarmed that there is no way to prevent state employees from misusing laptops.

State government laptops should be confiscated and re-issued only after new policies and training about Internet security and password policies have been implemented.

State Auditor Charlie Janssen should do an audit of the IT director's office to determine what funds were spent on Internet security and why laptops with cameras were purchased without the ability to determine how such cameras were used.

Training on Internet security is a must, and the public needs to demand it.

Andrew L. Sullivan, Omaha

Seen enough already

Omaha Mayor Jean Stothert recently talked about her "successful" first term. I'd like to know what planet she lives on. We have bad roads, we have abysmal snow removal and we still have the restaurant tax. But we don't have the ConAgra headquarters.

We don't need Stothert re-elected as mayor.

Nathan Feldman, Omaha

A judge who uses common sense

Finally we have a judge who is willing to do the right thing.

Douglas County Juvenile Court Judge Wadie Thomas Jr. refused to let 13-year-old Jarrell Milton, who was placed in Boys Town after being involved in a robbery and killing at Miller Park, go back home to live with his mother ("Teenager involved in Miller Park slaying must remain at Boys Town," Sept. 9 World-Herald). In addition, the judge said Milton's stepfather's gang ties prevent him from being allowed on the youth's visitor list.

Milton is doing very well in the Boys Town program. He has an opportunity that very few of his peers have. The Boys Town model will instill in him the values he needs. He will learn to be accountable for his actions, how to accept no for an answer and how to follow directions.

With appropriate social skills, he will be able to reach his fullest potential and become a responsible adult. If he was left to run the streets, we have already seen the direction he was headed in.

We need judges who are willing to do what is right and not what is considered politically correct or be influenced by others. Giving children the skills they need to become productive citizens is certainly a better outcome than having to build more prisons.

We need more judges like Wadie Thomas Jr.

Sandie Yeaman, Omaha

An easy choice on health care

I just received another three-month supply of my medications. As I was going through them, I noticed President Barack Obama on television telling a Philadelphia audience how good his Affordable Care Act is, and I saw Donald Trump in Clive, Iowa, saying how the health care act needed to be reworked because it cost too much.

I just figured out my three-month supply of medicine cost a little more than $300 higher than the previous supply.

Needless to say, you can guess whom I trust to tell the truth — Obama or Trump.

Bill Allen, Blue Springs, Neb.

Care act works, if you want it to

Congressional Republicans did not support Social Security in the '30s or Medicare in the '60s, but at least they did not actively sabotage them. "Obamacare" is working in states where conservative governors don't deliberately undermine the spirit of the law ("Law works better in states that support it," Sept. 13 World-Herald).

We see the Affordable Care Act working not only in states with Democratic governors who expanded Medicaid — such as Colorado, Illinois and California — but also in states with Republican governors — such as Arkansas and Arizona — who wanted to serve the needs of their people.

The Affordable Care Act drops the rate of uninsured, expands choice and improves people's lives. However, in states like Nebraska, where conservative Govs. Dave Heineman and Pete Ricketts chose to serve the conservative agenda rather than the welfare of their citizens, the program struggles to maintain a full choice of coverage while its poorest citizens live without any medical insurance.

Bernie Clark, Omaha

Trump may stop this trend

Since Gerald Ford became president after Richard Nixon resigned in 1974, the leadership of each successive Republican president (Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush) made the previous one look better. In other words, since Reagan, each succeeding Republican president was less capable as commander in chief than his Republican predecessor.

This presidential election, the Republican Party scraped the bottom of the barrel and got Donald Trump as its candidate. If, by some fluke, voter fraud and/or voter suppression, Trump becomes president, who would have to succeed him to make him look good by comparison? Very scary!

Mary Ruth Stegman, Omaha

Different ways to sacrifice

As a member of a Gold Star family, I know what heartache is. My father and uncle were Harvard University kids who left to fight for our country.

My uncle was the highest-ranking Marine killed in the air war at Guadalcanal. My father was one of Gen. George Patton's tank commanders. He couldn't be spared from fighting Rommel in North Africa to attend his beloved brother's funeral. He would later be a Silver Star recipient at Bastogne.

The death of his son practically destroyed my grandfather. However, he persevered and became CEO of a Colorado company that employed more than 3,000 people. My grandfather would never have thought to go to a national political convention and accuse a candidate of being unpatriotic.

The fact that Donald Trump equated employing thousands of people with the sacrifice of service in the Armed Forces would have struck a note with my grandfather. In a time of 25 percent unemployment, providing people with high-paying jobs is every bit as patriotic as taking an assault gun platoon through 125 miles of the worst snowstorm in Europe in the 20th century to relieve Bastogne.

Being a Gold Star family is an intensely private affair, and the sacrifice made for freedom and liberty is the most noble deed that can be performed.

William Lake, Omaha

Our state fair is a great state fair

Nebraska has a great state fair in Grand Island.

It is improved each year and is nice and clean. People are friendly, and there are lots of volunteers who tell people they're glad you came and make you feel welcome.

There's lots of fun to be had and things to enjoy.

Marie Jarmin, Osceola, Neb.
Copyright, 2016, Omaha World-Herald. All Rights Reserved.
