
A
Newspaper November 8, 2016 | Oregonian, The (Portland, OR)
Section: A 511 Words
Page: 11
A
REPUBLICAN ‘FACTS’

Regarding “Democrats confronted with facts they cannot accept” (Nov. 7): Perhaps James L. Buchal, chairman of the Multnomah County Republican Party, should think about all the “facts” Republicans know that aren’t so:

1. President Obama was not born in the United States.

2. Climate change is a hoax.

3. Violent crime in the United States is on the rise.

4. Most undocumented immigrants are criminals.

5. The presidential election is rigged due to widespread voter fraud.

Yada, yada, yada.

Gary Waltuch, West Linn

RESURRECTING JIM CROW

Tyrants always need a pretext to their tyranny. Mr. Trump and the GOP are trying to prevent minorities in this country from exercising their constitutional right to vote in this year’s election. I would have more respect for those in the opposition if they just came out and said, “We don’t want blacks voting,” instead of insulting my intelligence by claiming massive voter fraud in this country. This election has shown what great lengths a major political partywill go to preserve their way of life — one that is tyrannical in nature and where blacks willlive under resurrected Jim Crow laws.

Lindsay Earl Paulk, Southwest Portland

‘NO FREEDOM FROM BEING OFFENDED’

Regarding “UO law professor investigated for wearing blackface at Halloween party,” (OregonLive, Nov. 4): The witch hunt of University of Oregon law professor Nancy Shurtz is deeply troubling to those of us who respect the Constitution. Those law professors who signed the letter demanding the resignation ofShurtz wrote “It doesn’t matter if (your expression) was protected by the First Amendment.” I don’t think professors who dismiss our Constitutional protections belong in the law school. Perhapstheyshould resign.

Freedom of expression is a core American constitutional principle. There is no freedom from being offended. Shame on the University of Oregon School of Law professors, who — of all people — need to be reminded of this. The legal primacy of the Constitution is sacrosanct.

John S. Dearing, Corvallis

‘SHAMEFUL RUSH TO JUDGMENT’

Regarding “UO professor suspended for blackface costume,” (Nov. 4): This article tells an appalling story about the University of Oregon and its law school. A distinguished professor invited numerous faculty members and students to a Halloween party at her home.The professor wanted to promote a discussion of the relationship of race and medicine based on the prominent memoir “Black Man in a White Coat: A Doctor’s Reflections on Race and Medicine,” written by Dr. Damon Tweedy, a black doctor. To do this, she wore a white coat, painted her face black and carried a copy of the book.Her intellectual intentions were apparently ignored by many, and her blackface appearance has aroused an incredibleuproar among the university faculty, students and administration. Michael Moffitt, the law school dean,placed the professor on paid administrative leave. Numerous faculty and students have demanded that she resign or be fired. University President Michael Schill hasjoined the official condemnation.

The articlesuggests that the need to be politically correct at the university has caused its president and its law school to stumble badly in a shameful rush to judgment.

I hope the suspended professor is forgiving, rather than litigious.

Milo E. Ormseth, Southwest Portland
Copyright (c) 2016 Oregonian Publishing Co.
