
A
Newspaper October 25, 2016 | Oregonian, The (Portland, OR)
Section: A 560 Words
Page: 11
A
PARK RESTROOMS AS HOMELESS HAVENS

Next time you are at your local park and find the restroom door locked, don’t wait around expecting the door to open soon. As the weather gets colder, more homeless people are taking up residence in public restrooms. The best restrooms are in small parks where you just go in and lock the door. Now you can sleep, eat, do drugs or whatever, locked safely behind a door. You don’t have to worry about someone assaulting you or even the police if you stay quiet. Just like a hotel room minus the bed, you have everything you need, except room service. Check out your local park and find out how many restroom doors are permanently locked.

Douglas Hylton, Milwaukie

2016 is not 2000

James Miller (Letters to the Editor, Oct. 21) compares Donald Trump’s threatened refusal to accept the results of the election if he loses to Al Gore’s challenge in 2000. Nick Baumann of The Huffington Post has already refuted this argument. As Baumann summarizes: On election night, television networks called Florida for George W. Bush. Gore conceded. The networks then “uncalled Florida,” and Gore “unconceded.” A legally mandated recount began. Bush, not Gore, sued to stop recounts in some counties. Gore then sued to extend the recount deadlines. The Florida Supreme Court ordered a recount — but Bush, not Gore, appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, which stopped the recount. Gore then conceded.

That’s different.

Alan Grinnell, Southwest Portland

DON’T BELIEVE THE HYPE

It appears that Nancy Hursh (Letters to the Editor, Oct. 23) believes the hype of voter fraud despite nationwide confirmation it does not exist. (After approximately 1 billion votes in nearly 20 years, only 31 or so suspect cases exist.) There is also no indication Hillary Clinton is trying to force rejection of Catholic or any other religious beliefs. She has repeatedly continued to support freedom of religion, which includes all faiths.

The whole context of one’s speeches and platforms must be viewed, not edited excerpts.

There continues to be unsubstantiated claims that transgender can be turned on and off. This too, is false fodder to get the unsuspecting to believe.

Also, people believe that Planned Parenthood rips apart babies and takes them from the womb in the ninth month or sells body parts, which have also been soundly proven false. Just because Donald Trump restated it, does not make it true. The evidence clearly says otherwise. In addition, most of the Planned Parenthood efforts are to support life planning, and to provide assistance with family life skills, health and well-being.

The Oregon Family Council’s voters’ guide is subject to a bias which does not represent the official state guide. The official guide is open to all views, with accounting of candidates and measures.

A fair comparison of candidates’ words may only be viewed in a public forum. Only in an open society can truth be presented without subject to a bias. Decency may only be realized when all views are shared. This includes all faiths, whether it be Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Hinduism or others. Bigotry is present across the globe and across the faiths when only one perspective or a forced narrow view is taken. With Christianity, a narrow focus often takes the Old Testament in whole while limiting the role of the New Testament. Casting the first stone is very narrow, indeed.

Michael D. Prothe, Northeast Portland
Copyright (c) 2016 Oregonian Publishing Co.
