
A
Newspaper January 26, 2017 | Oregonian, The (Portland, OR)
Section: A 414 Words
Page: 11
A
Protester fatigue

I am so tired of these people protesting anything and everything and then complaining when the police do their job. So now they are demanding the mayor fire our police chief — get real. If you do not like it here MOVE. Leave Portland alone.

Tami Weller, North Portland

A sales tax for others?

I wonder if voters would be comfortable with a sales tax aimed at the hordes of tourists we host each year. They would help support the state they love to visit, but there would be no negative financial impact on Oregonians.

Mike Soderquist, Newberg

Hollow pronouncements

Has any of Trump’s supporters noticed that all Trump is doing is issuing directives with no policies or actual plans whatsoever? Have they also noticed also that almost all of his directives decrease or even eliminate transparency within government agencies? And has any of his supporters noticed that all he has done — from healthcare to mortgage relief to environmental protection — works against the best interests of the average person, the middle-class, the unemployed and disenfranchised? Trump is all talk and has not planned or offered anything to help you and me.

Terry D. Kester, Wilsonville

Facts, please, about voter fraud

Could we get more specifics about the voting fraud that President Trump spoke about? All Americans should be concerned about this. We need more details, though.

Ken Hutchins, Southeast Portland

An appeal for transparency

To Rep. Greg Walden: A true patriot loves his country more than personal power and a hunger for re-election. If you love your country and the people you represent, you will insist on transparency in the Trump administration, including: restoration of the federal government’s web site on global climate change (www.whitehouse.gov/energy/climate-change); that Trump release his tax returns, as well as a detailed and accurate medical report on his physical and mental health; that Trump respond to questions from members of the White House press corps whether he likes them or not; and that Trump genuinely separate himself from his businesses, not simply turn them over to his children. These are legitimate requests, and most have been easily complied with over the last 50 years by previous presidents.

Republicans acquired everything they’ve always wanted: the presidency, the Senate, the House, the ability to appoint at least one justice to the Supreme Court and a majority of state legislatures. It’s now all in the Republicans’ court.

Rep. Walden, please show us that you and your party deserve this kind of power.

Tracie Hornung, Parkdale
Copyright (c) 2017 Oregonian Publishing Co.
