
President Obama's job well done; Trump, the sore winner: Letters to the editor
Newspaper December 1, 2016 | Oregonian, The: Web Edition Articles (Portland, OR)
Author: Letters to the editor Section: Opinion 589 Words
President Obama's job well done; Trump, the sore winner: Letters to the editor
LEADERSHIP WITH GRACE: Amidst the turmoil of the election, heartbreak and tears on one side, elation and grand plans on the other, we should take a little time to praise President Obama for a job well done. He took the right steps to pull us out of the greatest recession since World War II, successfully bailed out companies like GM and saved well-paying jobs with the government getting a positive return on its investment. His policies have greatly increased the share of renewable energy while making America a net exporter of petroleum. Unemployment rate is down to 4.9% and ISIS is in retreat. Iran's nuclear ambitions are under control. Not all of his actions were resoundingly successful. Middle East and Afghanistan are still problematic but given the morass left for him in 2008 and the complexities of the conflict, no possible U.S. role would bring happiness to all sides.

Obama has carried his leadership role with grace, wisdom and decency despite nearly total opposition from the Republican Congress - many members of which have treated him with contempt. They spent time and money to drum up imaginary scandals like Benghazi. They found time to take 62 votes on the repeal of the Affordable Care Act by Groundhog Day 2016 per MSNBC's MaddowBlog without ever coming up with an alternative. They shirked their responsibility by refusing to schedule a hearing for his supreme court nominee. For them all Obama initiatives were dead on arrival. I wonder to what extent the fact that he is (half) black played a part.

Vidya Kale

Lake Oswego

MORE BECOMES LESS: I received a letter from Social Security today telling me that my new monthly benefit would increase by 0.3%. Hooray! Any increase would be welcome. However, because they increased my Medicare premiums, my monthly check will now be $18.40 less each month ($220.80 less per year). Government pay increases to Social Security recipients are not really increases, obviously.

Dick Safranski

North Portland

DISGRACEFUL REACTION TO TRUMP'S ELECTION: I had to laugh at Ryan Bryson's letter to the editor ("Showing Trump the courtesy that some denied Obama," Nov. 28). He complained about the alleged "disrespect" that was shown by "conservatives" to President Barack Obama.

You're kidding, right? How many riots were there in downtown Portland and in other major cities after Obama was elected? Compared to the flak that Donald Trump is taking from the media, and from vast groups of upset "protesters" everywhere, Obama was, and still is being treated like the proverbial golden child.

How can you say Obama was disrespected? Did Mitt Romney and the GOP call for several states to endure lengthy and costly recounts? Never in the history of this country has there been a more disgraceful reaction to a presidential election. The closest demonstration that comes to mind would be the Boston Tea Party.

Charles Heath

Tigard

TRUMP THE SORE WINNER: Donald Trump is now whining about not winning the popular vote and blames it on "millions of people who voted illegally", even though there is no evidence of voter fraud. This may be the first example of a "sore winner." Apparently, it hasn't sunk in that he no longer needs to fool the gullible. But the fact remains that he did not win a majority of the votes and he does not have a mandate.

Charlie Ford

Southeast Portland
Copyright 2016 The Oregonian. All Rights Reserved.
