
Reader views
Newspaper October 23, 2016 | Oregonian, The (Portland, OR)
Section: A 974 Words
Page: 21
Reader views
RELIGION UNDER siege

Catholics, evangelicals and Latinos: Hillary Clinton and progressive Democrats have utter disdain and intense feelings of bigotry towards you. Here are some names the mainstream media is hiding from you in relation to WikiLeaks: Sandy Newman, John Podesta, John Halpin and Jennifer Palmieri. If you haven’t heard of WikiLeaks or Project Veritas (where video footage has been released showing Democrats explaining how to successfully commit voter fraud on a major scale), ask yourself why.

On April 23, 2015, in a speech at the Women in the World Summit, Hillary said “Laws have to be backed up with resources and political will. And deep seated religious beliefs have to be changed.” Hillary Clinton is promising she will use the full power of government to force you to reject your Catholic beliefs.

When satanic clubs are starting up in elementary schools, when men can walk into women’s bathrooms on days they’re confused about their gender, when a healthy woman with a healthy pregnancy can have the baby ripped apart and taken from the womb in the ninth month, when Planned Parenthood is caught selling the body parts of babies, you know something is wrong in paradise.

Christians, if your faith, family, your country, constitutional rights, the Supreme Court justices, decency and the truth are important to you, pick up the Oregon Family Council’s voters’ guide and compare each candidate’s position in their own words on freedom of religion, life, parent’s rights, school choice, education and taxes.

Nancy Hursh, Hillsboro

TRUMP POSES MONUMENTAL RISK

In November 2000, I watched in admiration as voters lined up at polling stations in Portland. They were waiting until the last minute to cast their ballots. They wanted to be sure that Al Gore didn’t need their votes to win in Oregon. They hoped to vote their conscience — often meaning votes for third parties — but they weren’t willing to risk being responsible for electing George W. Bush.

Today, those voters inspire me to speak up before it’s too late. I’m scared that Donald Trump could become president of the United States. I want to ask people to think very carefully before they vote for him.

Having grown up in rural Oregon, I understand many of the sentiments that motivate his supporters. But he isn’t the vehicle for those sentiments. His life story is about self. He seems to disdain people who haven’t been as fortunate as him. He has no appetite for learning and no respect for those with opinions that differ from his. Hillary is not my first choice — probably not my 35th choice. But please think carefully before you cast a vote for Trump. It just seems like a monumental risk that our country can’t afford.

Jan Dickey, Toledo

LIGHT RAIL IN TIGARD? LET US DECIDE

Incredibly, Tigard’s charter requires the city to oppose proposed light rail service to Tigard without voter approval. This is why you see so many yard signs for and against Measure 34-255 throughout the city, with the “No Tax for MAX” signs sneakily implying that a yes vote for 34-255 would increase taxes now. Actually, it’s unclear what the tax impact on Tigard residents like me might be if the planned line loops west to stop at our downtown transit hub. We just know that federal and regional funding is required to greenlight the project.

I’m willing to consider a tax proposal in a later measure. I’d consider it because Tigard is growing and changing, and we either modernize or get left behind. This is a very different city than even two years ago, when special interests lobbied for the anti-light-rail ordinance in our city charter.

Of course, if you are someone who has a strong negative reaction to change or talk of more taxes, there’s nothing here for you. But I am in principle supportive of infrastructure that provides a quicker, more environmentally friendly commute for those who would otherwise drive, and more family time and access to affordable housing for those who can’t.

For all of us in Tigard who see the change happening now — residential and business growth, but also increased traffic congestion and crowded rush-hour buses — we want to hear TriMet’s best offer.

Tim Dickey, Tigard

SUPPORT MEASURE 97

It is our turn now. It is our turn to support the children of Oregon. I know something about teaching children from my daughter and son-in-law, who both teach in Hillsboro. They tell me the major factor in a child’s ability to learn is the child’s self-esteem. That self-esteem is directly fostered by a child’s relationship with a teacher. If that child feels he is loved, respected, praised and listened to by a teacher, that child’s self-esteem will grow, and that child will learn.

I owe everything to the public education I received in Wisconsin. From kindergarten through grade school, high school, college and medical school, I got a first-rate education and had many personal connections with great teachers. I am grateful.

When it was their turn, my parents’ generation stood up and strongly supported the education of all children in Wisconsin. That was yesterday. Today it is our turn. Our generation must step up. We must not falter or make excuses. We must stand up for the children of Oregon. Let’s not miss this golden opportunity. Support Measure 97.

Robert L. Seward, Forest Grove

NASTY CAMPAIGNS ARE NOTHING NEW

It is strangely reassuring that in the U.S. presidential election campaign of 1800 the president of Yale University (who supported John Adams) said that if Thomas Jefferson won “we would see our wives and daughters the victims of legal prostitution.” One of Jefferson’s supporters, an influential newspaper columnist, responded that Adams was a “repulsive pedant” and “gross hypocrite” who “behaved neither like a man nor like a woman but instead possessed a hideous hermaphroditical character.” This year’s nastiness is nothing new. The country has survived negative campaigns for over two centuries, and we are still going strong.

David D. Clarke, Happy Valley
Copyright (c) 2016 Oregonian Publishing Co.
