

Newspaper December 18, 2016 | Oregonian, The (Portland, OR)
Section: A 1117 Words
Page: 23
A
A snow-day directive

Our region likes to brag about how we care about everyone. All it took was an inch of snow to expose the hypocrisy.

Dear newcomers: You give liberals a bad name by fleeing your red state and expecting its road conditions to follow you here. We have very slick snow and chronically underfunded transportation agencies. We also have something called hills, which you shouldn’t drive on unless prepared. Own a set of chains and know how to use them. If your car can’t take chains, use MAX on snow days. All it takes is one disabled vehicle for thousands to arrive home late.

Dear mayors: You have the authority to declare mandatory chain use. Use it. Set up checkpoints at freeway entrances, and those without chains go back to park and spend the night, or use MAX, buses, and Uber or Lyft to get a ride home. Take the fall when schools send kids home early so they don’t have to second-guess public reaction. Make sure the public knows that driving unprepared means a ticket or a tow.

Dear schools: You ought to know better. Weather watches and warnings were in effect. Sending kids home early was the obvious call. When school board elections happen, a price will be paid for your incompetence.

Dear Oregon Department of Transportation: As keepers of the road system, your job is to work with all of the above as a fail-safe mechanism to keep mistakes such as Dec. 14 from happening. Being underfunded is not an excuse for sitting back and watching the carnage happen, then blaming everyone else afterward. And please, don’t allow unchained semi-trucks on our freeways during snow and ice events.

Dear everyone: We get what we pay for when we refuse to fund our roads.

Chris Carvalho, Aloha

Snowpocolypse and Groundhog Day

Deja vu! During the more than 30 years I’ve lived in the Portland area I’ve seen the same scenario play itself out several times. Whenever it begins to snow during a workday, the entire region experiences traffic gridlock. When it snows during the night people wisely stay home.

When will people learn?

Marten King, Portland

Frigid air, frozen slush

I believe everybody missed the real reason the traffic problems unfolded as they did on Wednesday afternoon and evening.

It wasn’t the one inch of snow that forced the city traffic to its knees. It was the combination of wind and a temperature which, according to weather reports, had a wind chill factor of 14 degrees. The roads became slushy, the low temperatures froze the slush, and this then created havoc.

Nobody could have foreseen this. It was just the forces of nature coming together this unfortunate way.

Marita Hackbarth, Portland

To salt or not to salt …

A letter published in the Oregonian on Friday made the case for not using salt on area roadways during a snow event. While I agree that the use of salt is controversial, I would add a few points.

Our area would only need to use salt once or twice a year, if that, and then not on every road or street. This infrequent use of salt would probably not have adverse affects on our vehicles. By contrast, I feel that the emissions from the thousands of these vehicles caught in gridlock can also be harmful to the environment.

The main point, I feel, is the potential life-threatening issues created when traffic jams occur such as we saw on Wednesday.

Barry A. Lilly, McMinnville

Finding a fair balance in arrests

It’s more than disheartening to read, yet again, of the racial disparities in our criminal system (I omit the word justice intentionally).

The problem isn’t just with the system.People of color are far more likely to have the police called upon them than white people. It’s one of the legal ways a person can still exercise blatant racism, by picking up the phone and calling the police on minorities to report: suspicious activity, a possible prowler, someone lurking, an argumentor any manner of complaint. What the solution is, I don’t know.

I do know that if a police officer wants to be part of a criminal justice system, instead of just a criminal system, he or she needs to take bold action to stop the disparity in arrests. There is no justice in a system that allows racial prejudice to determine who goes to prison or has their life impaired by an arrest.

If you know you are arresting too many minorities, you stop arresting minorities until there is a just proportion. It’s that simple.

Michael A. Miller, Astoria

Sanctuaries are for us to name

Why not let the citizens decide whethertheir cities should be sanctuary cities? I don’t understand why we have no say in this.

Sandy McKay, Portland

Bias in government and the media

Very interesting that federal, state and local governments promised that there was no potential of any voter fraud in the elections, yet now they are saying the Russians intervened. And now the media, which backed up their promises, is spouting off about it, because their candidate did not win.

Get over it! Your candidates did not win, because voters were tired of the lying and tired of the biased news reporting, which continues.

Gordon Grochau, Portland

Somehow, it fails the logic test

I’ve taken that ECON 101 class referred to in several recent letters, and ECON 102 as well, and never heard the argument that raising taxes causes businesses to raise their prices. But maybe I was dozing off in my freshman classes while conservatives were becoming experts.

Let’s suppose it’s true. If higher taxes mean higher prices for consumers, then surely lower taxes should lead to lower prices. Therefore, when the coming Republican Congress passes the legislation proposed by Donald Trump to reduce the top business tax rate from 35 percent to 15 percent, then my daily shopping is going to cost a whole lot less, too!

I’m not holding my breath.

Gerhard Magnus, Portland

The regional view on Trump

My friend from Biloxi shares a sentiment for Oregonians unable to accept Trump’s presidency: “At this point what difference does it make?” Meanwhile, Mississippians are outraged; their public schools are being referred to as “the Oregon of the East.”

James Knoll, Cornelius

Probing hacking allegations

The Republicans’ response to the Russian hacking allegations does not appear equal to the enormity of the challenge. The Republican National Committee was also hacked, but the information not yet released.

What might the Russians demand in exchange for not revealing the RNC records? It is probable the RNC information will indeed be published at a time most advantageous to Russia’s national interest.

A Congressional Select Committee is needed to review all issues associated with the Russian intrusion into our political process.

Dan Irwin, Gaston

Climate change doubts

Not much global warming happening this week.

Joe Sardotz, Milwaukie
Copyright (c) 2016 Oregonian Publishing Co.
