Newspaper January 27, 2017 | Oregonian, The (Portland, OR)
Section: A 1192 Words
Page: 18
A
Thank you, Portland police

Portland police are doing a fantastic job stopping those idiots who disrupt the city. They did an excellent job containing these hoodlums from repeating what occurred under Charlie Hales’ administration.

Finally, our mayor and police are taking back the city for hard-working taxpayers!

Greg Sock, Southeast Portland

Free speech, high price

I would like to express my thanks to our new mayor, Ted Wheeler, for saying what he will do and following through to keep all Portland citizens safe. Keeping the protesters under control is a great improvement from past events.

I do not disagree that the protesters have a right to freedom of speech. But that freedom does not include imposing or forcing beliefs on others. Blocking parents from picking up their children from school or a sick person from swift transport to medical care is not acceptable. Then there is the cost to local government of responding to the protests.

I say thank you to Mayor Wheeler, Portland police and the city crews that must clean up the mess left behind.

Mark Montgomery, Southwest Portland

Cops and the homeless

I have sympathy for Portland’s police. I have spent years volunteering with homeless folks, and I have only positive recollections of police treating our homeless with patience and kindness.

Protester Star Stafford demands that a police officer check on any homeless person he or she sees sleeping on the streets. I can only imagine how quickly that police action would be attacked as harassment.

Damned if you do and damned if you don’t.

Rebecca Mowe, Southeast Portland

Making up for snow days

Why are people talking about using spring break and Saturdays to make up for snow days? What about adding on to the end of school? Summer break is already too long! Kids are bored after six weeks. And the teachers need their time off during spring break and Saturday to go over homework and prepare for the coming week.

I know, because three of my grown kids became teachers, and with all the extra testing and pay cuts, all are leaving! What a disgrace for the USA. Our kids have been dumbed down enough.

Klf Barrett, Aloha

Scouts on parade

The Girl Scouts of America decided to march in the inaugural parade to honor the office of the president and the peaceful transfer of power — two of the things that make America great. They also chose to honor other marching groups, our military, our young people, and others who make our country great and keep it safe.

I am proud to be a Girl Scout and think the Girl Scouts made the right decision.

Barbara Alberty, Northwest Portland

Monitoring water quality

Toxic lead from lost fishing sinkers poisons young salmon and contaminates the tackle boxes that legislators use while teaching their grandkids how to fish, thereby contaminating their hands, sandwiches, apples and fish. No funding for any monitoring of all of this pollution is allowed because the regulators of the regulators (the legislators) do not want to upset the industry lobbies that feed them their election money.

The salmon restoration effort can never be “best available science-based” until agencies are allowed to perform the right science. Politics requires of agencies that they stick their heads in the sand so that they will never report the water quality sampling and analysis that might threaten the lobbies paying the politicians. Yet accurate, investigative monitoring is the eyes and ears of science guiding our public health and environmental health.

Water quality monitoring for toxic pollutants saves far more money than it costs.

Ray Kinney, Deadwood

Pushback against Trump

Predators cull. Trump culls members of the press with individual intimidation and members of Congress by ignoring normal vetting processes and daring them to react. Now, with his attack on “sanctuary cities” and other jurisdictions, he’s trying to cull us.

Trump imagines that we will find the support of our sisters and brothers to be heavy. He’s wrong.

Let’s imagine that Trump manages to steal $1 billion from sanctuary entities. There are probably 100 million individual tax returns filed each year, maybe more. If just one tenth of the taxpayers — 10 million — were to contribute $100 each to the general fund of any affected city, school district or other jurisdiction, the theft damage would be recovered.

Best of all, Trump will have to pay, because “qualified organizations” for deductible charitable contributions include “the U.S. or any state, the District of Columbia, a U.S. possession, or an Indian tribal government or any of its subdivisions that perform substantial government functions.”

Let’s get a crowdfunding site started.

Loren Northup, Lake Oswego

The truth about voting

Well, now that our fearless leader of the world believes that 3 million zombies rose up on election day, let’s get serious and do some “extreme vetting” on the Electoral College.

It seems to me that it is a whole lot easier to manipulate a few dozen electoral votes than to manage an army of undead. This is a great opportunity to look into all aspects of the election, including Russian involvement, and lay it out for the whole world to see.

V. Ballard, Northeast Portland

Futility of the wall

I have one word in response to President Trump’s wall on the Mexican border: tunnel.

Jeff Jolma, Northeast Portland

Right to life but not health care

Trump has reinstated a policy that denies family planning funds to organizations that even discuss abortion. The major impact of this will be that contraceptives will not reach many of the poorest women in the world.

Apparently, children the world over have the right to life even before conception. Once born even in America, however, they do not have the right to secure health insurance.

Sunil Shenoy, Northwest Portland

Saying no to a tyrant

As Donald Trump’s poison pen executes more draconian orders, the Republican congressional leadership stands like deer in the headlights. So much for their vaunted promises of governance for all Americans: They’re terrified to say no to a tyrant who’s never been told no.

America is in a heap of trouble.

Frank DiMarco, Southeast Portland

A mental assessment, please

Trump’s orders for investigations in voter fraud, his irrational immigration restrictions, and his blackout at the Environmental Protection Agency are among the delusional actions of an unbalanced megalomaniac.

The most needed investigation now is into the mental status of the president. He is unfit for the job and a danger to this country and the world.

David Shrader, Jefferson

Widespread embarrassment

President Trump, please stop your embarrassing tirades against the proven and established institutions of the United States, our friends and allies, our neighbors and the majority of your constituents.

You are not only embarrassing yourself and our country, you embarrass me.

Steve Hall, Hillsboro

Orwell couldn’t be more current

I urge our local bookstores and the Multnomah County Library system to make available to readers copies of George Orwell’s “1984.”

I read that book years ago and appreciate references to what is happening in our country now. Those who have not read it may want to be aware of how much that fictional story, written nearly 70 years ago, is a model for today’s events.

It’s easy to read and most apt now. Classroom and book club discussions could be stimulating.

Jean Mitchell, Northeast Portland
Copyright (c) 2017 Oregonian Publishing Co.
