Letters: Philly - vote early and often?
Newspaper October 19, 2016 | Philadelphia Inquirer, The (PA)
Section: EDITORIAL 692 Words
Page: A13
Letters: Philly - vote early and often?
ISSUE

VOTER FRAUD Where corruption reignsDonald Trump has been getting a lot of attention for his claims that there will be massive voter fraud in Philadelphia ("Trump, backers in Pa. are defiant," Oct. 11). While the claim that this has happened in the past has been debunked, I find it difficult to understand why people are so surprised and outraged that someone would think this. In the past few months, Philadelphia has seen a congressman indicted on federal corruption charges, a district attorney criticized for failing to disclose gifts, and federal investigations into city and union officials. Any conscientiousness voter - Democratic or Republican - should be very concerned that corruption is the norm in Philly politics.

Nick D'Orazio, Philadelphia,nickdorazio01@gmail.com Procedures in placeWhen someone votes by absentee ballot in Pennsylvania (there is no other early voting in this state), the ballot is sent to the voter's county Board of Elections, which forwards it to the polling place for Election Day. Absentee ballots are not counted until after the polls close. When the voter enters the polls to vote on Election Day, the absentee ballot is not counted. You can't just walk into any polling place and vote. I was a judge of elections for many years.

Carolyn Clein, Gladwyne 'Cuts both ways'In response to a letter ("System open to fraud," Sunday), in Ohio, where absentee voting is allowed, the Board of Elections takes several steps to protect against falsification or fraud, which are rare. When casting an absentee ballot early or by mail, the voter must provide a driver's license number or the last four digits of his or her Social Security number. People who vote early or by absentee ballot will be flagged in the poll books to ensure that they don't show up to vote at a precinct on Election Day. When someone who is flagged shows up to vote and says he or she has not voted, he or she can cast a provisional ballot, which will not be counted until it is verified. It's important to recognize that any fraud risk cuts both ways in any election, and processes to mitigate such risks do exist.

Joe McKinley, Warrington, jmckinlwey21@verizon.net Trump signaling his supporters Democrats are the ones who need to be watching for cheaters at the polls on Nov. 8. It looks to me that Donald Trump is using doublespeak to suggest to his supporters that they rig the elections somehow.

Carol Nickels, Bryn Mawr Election organizers deserve apologyI am a Democratic ward leader in Philadelphia. Years ago, the task of staffing Election Boards fell to ward leaders. I spend much time staffing Election Boards. I hate this job, because it is labor intensive and increasingly difficult. I also do this work with very little assistance from the Republican Party. As every ward leader will tell you, this time spent is for one reason - to ensure that every registered voter has an opportunity to vote and have his or her vote counted. On Sunday, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich railed on ABC-TV's "This Week" about so-called "rigged" elections in Philadelphia. Gingrich, Donald Trump, and every other politician and pundit who thinks Philadelphia elections are rigged owes me and every city Election Board member and ward leader an apology. We staff Election Boards for no pay for one reason - to make sure elections can proceed efficiently and fairly.

Louis Agre, Philadelphia Poll watchers' bill is undemocraticThe Pennsylvania legislature is considering a bill to allow poll watchers in districts where the watchers do not reside, under a thinly disguised rationale to intimidate voters ("Dems are leery of bill on poll watching," Oct. 10). Touted as a means to deter voter fraud, this proposed measure uses the same discredited excuse to inspire voter identification, which has been recognized as a way to lower the turnout of minority voters. In truth, it is a tactic to achieve ends not in accordance with our democratic ideals, prompted by the hyper-partisan election climate we experience today. I urge all citizens who hold dear their constitutional rights to contact their legislators to oppose House Bill 29 and prevent this shameful breach of democracy.

Meg Berlin, Philadelphia





