
pc-12316-ed-letKsenzak_merged
Newspaper December 4, 2016 | Post and Courier, The (Charleston, SC)
Section: B 1031 Words
Page: 001

Navy base buildings

I was happy to see the Nov. 27 editorial titled “Save historic Navy base buildings.” In addition to my love of local history, I admit to a personal interest in the Charleston Naval Hospital (CNH) Historic District.

My father, an administrative officer in the U.S. Navy Medical Service Corps, was stationed at the shipyard dispensary from 1954-1960 and at the hospital from 1963-1967. My mother served in the Navy Nurse Corps from 1941-1947 and was stationed at the hospital in 1946. I was born there in 1954, my younger brother in 1956.

Seeing the crisp white buildings topped with their red Spanish tile roofs was always a visual treat for me.

An Oct. 17 article in The Post and Courier paper (“Historic area joins ‘most endangered’ list,” reported that the active threat to the CNH Historic District stems from the inability of Palmetto Railways (a division of the South Carolina Department of Commerce), Norfolk Southern and CSX to agree on the shared use of existing rail lines.

Palmetto Railways’ solution to this impasse, i.e. build a new rail line right through the CNH Historic District, would not only render the site unsuitable for reuse, but also make it unbefitting to continued listing on the National Register of Historic Places.

Being named to the National Trust for Historic Preservation’s 2016 list of America’s 11 Most Endangered Historic Places speaks volumes about the importance of the CNH Historic District to local and national history.

Many people probably don’t realize that prior to its military service in WWI and WWII the hospital site was part of Turnbull Plantation, also known as Retreat Plantation, and Chicora Park, the City of Charleston’s public garden park designed by the Olmstead Brothers.

The construction of a new rail line through the hospital district is ill-considered and unnecessary. Enhancing our local and state economic opportunities via the Navy Base port facilities need not be achieved at the expense of destroying a historical and cultural treasure like the Charleston Naval Hospital Historical District.

Catherine Ksenzak

Berckman Road

North Charleston

Voter fraud is real

Leonard Pitts’ liberal diatribe attacking President-elect Donald Trump’s accusation about the voting of unqualified persons is a great example of how misleading some of these writers are.

For example, Mr. Pitts wrote: “It was hardly the first time he [the president-elect] didn’t know what the hell he was talking about. Not only is there zero evidence this supposedly massive fraud happened, but simple logic says that it could not… . It’s an idiotic idea.”

To give readers of The Post and Courier a little perspective on this misleading and condescending commentary, I offer the following factual data. A recent editorial in The Wall Street Journal provides us with more than enough evidence that illegal voting is much larger than most people think.

A Pew Center study estimates that one out of every eight voter registrations is inaccurate, out of date, or duplicate. About 2.8 million people are registered in more than one state, and 1.8 million registered voters are dead.

The Justice Department has refused to allow states to verify the citizenship of those registering to vote and refuses to follow up on the matter as evidenced by the refusal to follow up on Fairfax County, Virginia’s, identification of 274 non-citizens who were registered to vote.

Here is another eye opener: In only one district court, the administrator estimated as far back as 2005 that up to 3 percent of the 30,000 people called for jury duty from voter registration rolls over a two-year period were not U.S. citizens.

A 2014 study by three professors at Old Dominion University and George Mason University used extensive survey data to estimate that 6.4 percent of the nation’s non-citizens voted in 2008 and that 2.2 percent voted in 2010. A post-election survey conducted by America’s Majority Foundation found that 2.1 percent of non-citizens voted in the Nov. 8 election.

The article contains much more factual information that would lead one to believe that President-elect Trump may be on to something versus his detractors who cling to their faux analysis.

Thomas E. Nugent

Tradd Street

Charleston

Lorelei beckons

As an enthusiastic 40-year downtown resident of Charleston, I am quite delighted at what was heard at the Lorelei project presentation at Halls Chop House on Dec 1.

One hundred sixty acres of carefully developed mixed- use projects on Laurel Island at the end of Romney Street, with extensive working, living, activity spaces can be an exciting development for us all.

And as one of those irritating, rabid, anti-automobile, pro walker, hiker, bicyclist (earthy-crunchy) types, I sincerely hope that the planners can get together with the city leaders and develop a beautiful, safe, lighted bike-walkway back and forth to this community from downtown, as well as to and from the rest of the Charleston peninsula above.

This would go a really long way toward making our beloved “No. 1 in the World” city truly an outstanding world-class locality.

David Maves

Society Street

Charleston

Roof trial twist

What a fine decision to turn down a Dylann Roof plea deal, leaving us with a huge stage for all of the actors. Sadly, in a surprising turn of events the main character will assume another role as his own advocate.

The dynamics this opens up for the victims’ families, who offered their forgiveness to Roof and the taxpayer appear to be all negative. The families facing interrogation by Roof, taxpayers footing who knows how big a bill, and a nationwide stage for Roof to spew his line.

It appears we got all of this instead of life without parole because “the people” made it clear they would seek the death penalty instead of accepting Roof’s offered guilty plea. Roof’s federal sentence would have been pretty effective in erasing him from our consciousness. After all, we haven’t heard much from Ted Kaczynski or Terry Nichols lately.

We certainly wouldn’t be looking at photos and drawings of Roof on television or any other media.

I have no problem with the death penalty, but is it worth all of this to impose it? I’m sick of looking at this expressionless kid with a soup-bowl haircut, and if accepting a federal LWP sentence could have avoided this, we should have been chanting “lock him up” and now be asking why they didn’t.

Tom Doyle

Godfrey Park Place

Charleston
Copyright, 2016, The Post and Courier. All Rights Reserved.
