
PC Editorial / Opinion
Newspaper September 7, 2016 | Post and Courier, The (Charleston, SC)
Section: PC Editorial / Opinion 1300 Words
PC Editorial / Opinion
Give joy of reading

I volunteer at Trident Literacy Association in North Charleston by teaching a GED-prep reading class. Although I have only been doing this for six months, I have met people with incredible stories to tell.

Perhaps the one that touched me the most was Mary’s. She was telling her granddaughter that she didn’t have time to read her a story. Mary’s reason for this: She could not read, and she was ashamed to tell her granddaughter the truth.

I know that parents, relatives and friends of small children count those moments spent reading to the children as special ones. The educational impact is obvious; the emotional bonding experience is a strong one.

The National Institutes of Health has released a study that concludes that a mother’s reading skill is the greatest determinant of her children’s future academic success, outweighing other factors, such as neighborhood and family income.

Trident Literacy is sponsoring a fund raiser to aid in financing its educational mission to help some of the 86,000 adults in the Charleston metro area who do not have a high school diploma or a GED, and the 60,000 people who do not have even basic literacy skills.

A Taste of Park Circle will be held September 14 in North Charleston’s Park Circle area. Eleven restaurants are participating by highlighting a dish from each of its kitchens. These restaurants include regional American favorites as well as international cuisines. All proceeds from this event contribute to Trident’s operating funds.

I ask you to consider joining us for a wonderful evening of food and fun. Ticket purchase information can be found by going to www.tridentlit.org. If you are unable to attend the event, I ask you to consider making a donation to the event, which you can do at the same web link.

Cheryl Ann Ewing

Trident Literacy Association

Rivers Avenue

North Charleston

Voter fraud rare

I wish our leaders would be more intellectually honest about “voter fraud” and whether or not voter ID laws could really solve anything. Through hundreds of elections and billions of votes cast, a nationwide study of court records found only 31 possible instances of in-person voter fraud.

In one election, Wisconsin found just seven such frauds out of three million votes cast. None of them would have been caught by any form of voter ID or proof-of-citizenship law, according to the report.

As the Brennan Center for Justice said, “Impersonation at the poll is a clunky way to steal an election.” Yet all too many laws and practices in too many states disenfranchise tens of thousands of people — especially young, elderly, minority and low-income citizens — in the name of stamping out voter fraud.

Examples: In four states alone, more than 3,000 voters were turned away for lack of ID. Machine shortages and “breakdowns” in target areas cause long lines and five-hour wait times. Attempts are made to outlaw voter registration drives by impartial, legitimate organizations.

We also see cutbacks on absentee voting, weekend hours at the polls and registration office hours in poorer, largely black districts. These are the districts where people work long hours and can’t get 9-to-5 time off to exercise their constitutional rights.

All this is like throwing out the haystack when there’s probably no needle in the first place. Worse, it wastes taxpayer money and legislative energy on a myth.

What about proportionate response? Suppressing tens of thousands of votes to deter a handful of impersonators seems excessive.

Fortunately, a Kansas court recently struck down a state law requiring proof of citizenship to even register to vote. The verdict read in part, “…(this law) brings a magnitude of harm” to citizens’ rights to vote.

Yet the 2016 Republican platform reads, “We support legislation to require proof of citizenship when registering to vote and secure photo ID when voting.”

Such ideas emerge when ideology out-muscles fact and elected officials don’t do their homework.

So where, really, is the voter fraud? Don’t our leaders have enough real problems to deal with?

Doc Ardrey

Oyster Bay Drive

Summerville

Wall not needed

Donald Trump’s plan to build a wall to prevent illegal immigration and to stop the flow of drugs seems to ignore several fundamental facts: Despite his claims, there is no “massive flow” of illegal immigrants from Mexico into the United States. In the past few years, the outflow of foreigners from the United States to Mexico has actually exceeded the inflow.

The idea that “taking bad dudes off the street” and building his wall will cut off the illegal drug supply is unrealistic, if not ludicrous. For a business man, it is shocking that he doesn’t seem to understand the laws of supply and demand. If there is a demand for drugs, someone will find ways to supply that “need.”

It reminds me of the “Maginot Line,” a fortified border that the French built along their German border after World War I. When the Germans moved to conquer France at the beginning of World War II, they simply went around the line through Belgium. If we block drugs at the Mexican border, traffickers will find other ways to get them in.

If we really want to reduce the illegal flow of drugs into this country, we must find a way to reduce the demand. Many European countries have set up systems to supply drugs to addicts at low cost. You might ask, “Why do this? All we’ll do is increase the rate of use.” Actually that has not happened.

Rates of drug use in Europe are significantly lower than in the United States, and compared to the United States the crime associated with addicts stealing to finance their habits is extremely small.

Further, we can’t ignore the impact of the drug business on countries like Mexico, Colombia and others in Central America. The corruption and violence related to drug traffic in these countries is shocking — and yes, we are largely responsible for it.

Perhaps a third fact is that Mexico will not pay for this wall, despite Trump’s claims. He has suggested raising tariffs on Mexican goods coming into this country. If these goods are still imported, American consumers will pay for it, not Mexico.

All that Mr. Trump is proposing is a harsher version of what we are now doing — and what we are doing is not working. We have to come up with something else.

We need someone in the White House and people in Congress who take a pragmatic view of the situation we face, not one based on ideological dogma.

Fritz Saenger Jr.

Cove Bay Lane

Mount Pleasant

Baffling bike lane

After reading the Sept. 3 article “Advocates plan to apply pressure for bike lane,” I felt compelled to comment. I am one of many Charleston County residents who does not agree with the traffic lane closure on the T. Allen Legare Jr. Bridge and feel that it should not move forward.

It is irresponsible and dangerous to remove a lane for traffic when we are already at gridlock, and people with more cars are moving here every day.

I am amazed that the county has spent over $2 million of our tax dollars on just the initial studies and work.

I was even more stunned that this bike lane will take an additional $1.3 million diverted from another project.

I was befuddled by a previous article that stated if the bike lane is built it could be reversed in a few years because of traffic.

So let me get this right: We are taking away a lane for traffic, giving it to a few cyclists and spending tax dollars to do it, but it could be dismantled because of traffic gridlock? This makes no sense at all.

I think our tax dollars would be better spent on projects that support our infrastructure like mass transportation and upgrading our existing roads.

I would like to see our tax dollars benefit us all and not just a few. I am not against bike lanes, just this one.

Linda Fuller

St. Lukes Drive

Charleston
Copyright, 2016, The Post and Courier. All Rights Reserved.
