
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Newspaper January 27, 2017 | Providence Journal (RI)
Section: RI Opinion 1172 Words
Article Page: A14

Trump is having impact, but not the way he expected

Donald Trump may yet emerge as the pivotal figure of the age — but not in the way he planned. The march of women in Washington and worldwide are not merely a rejection of Trump's cramped and crippling worldview but a little uptick of consciousness, a sign of greater vision. Perhaps the ballistic yin of Trumpism is being replaced by a receptive yang that will heal the crying world.

Tom Hardie

North Kingstown

We must restore standards for common respect

When my friend showed me an East Greenwich Town Council member’s tweeted response to Saturday’s Women’s March, I laughed. Not because it was funny but because it was absurd.

Thousands of women were marching in cities around the world, from Washington to Paris to Los Angeles to Providence, and his response to this unprecedented turnout was “Definitely a guy came up with the #womensmarch perfect way to get the wives outta the house.”

This was exactly the reason many women walked on Saturday. President Trump’s campaign rhetoric has legitimized people’s previously unspoken opinions and made it okay for them to make unsavory comments about minorities, immigrants, the LGBT community, and the list goes on and on. Our public standard will never be the same.

These were not comments from a private citizen who was joking with his friends but an elected official with a constituency to represent. We need to make it clear that it is not okay to use the rhetoric of candidate Trump (I’m giving President Trump the benefit of the doubt so far).

It’s all about common respect. We have a standard to bring back in this country, and it is up to all of us to start in our homes, schools, towns and states. We all have a responsibility to keep and maintain that standard, regardless of what happens in Washington.

Isabelle Florijn

East Greenwich

President Trump, followed by tornadoes, followed by what?

I grew up during the Truman, Eisenhower and Kennedy years, when the presidency was an esteemed position. Our president was revered by most of our citizens and by the world. We pledged allegiance to the flag in our elementary classrooms and we stood up when we listened to the national anthem. Our families, churches and synagogues were teaching us to be kind to one another and to use gentle language. We were not supposed to make fun of anyone, especially those less fortunate or those with disabilities. Men stood for women in buses and trains and our mothers and wives were honored. These values were ingrained in us as young children.

Last year's presidential campaign seemed to highlight some of the worst traits in human behavior. Children and young people heard phrases that were never discussed in their homes, let alone in the political arena. References to the female anatomy and coarse political chants like “lock her up” filled our television screens.

Here in Georgia, where we spend our winters, Saturday was followed by a day of tornado watches. In some parts of southern Georgia unfortunate people were losing their lives and their homes to the storms. But what can we do about a national “tornado” if it continues to destroy the progress made in the last 20 years or so in this country?

Marie Younkin-Waldman

St. Simons Island, Ga.

The writer spends the warmer months in Wakefield.

The global rebuke is headed the other way

I found the Jan. 22 headline, “GLOBAL REBUKE,” a bit misleading.

While there is indeed a global rebuke, it’s not against the Trump administration. Rather, the election (and now inauguration) of Donald Trump was a rebuke of socialism, elitism and globalization.

One can always rely upon The Providence Journal to get it wrong.

Joe Lorenz

Portsmouth

Voter fraud started long before general election

Were the seeds of voter fraud sown during the Democratic primary, when Gov. Gina Raimondo and other superdelegates cast Rhode Island’s votes for Hillary Clinton — despite the fact that 66,993 Rhode Islanders voted for Bernie Sanders, and only 52,749 voted for Hillary Clinton?

Nancy E. Martin

Providence



A very trashy welcome at the Port of Providence

While stopped at red light I noticed a sign. It read: “Welcome to the Port of Providence.”

While reading the welcome sign I noticed something else. The area is depressingly loaded with trash, graffiti, beer cans and other garbage.

It does not bode well to be welcomed this way.

Charles Sotnik

Narragansett

Thanks to writer of letter about JWU museum

Although I am a hopeful Donald Trump supporter and was inspired by his inauguration, I otherwise completely agree with Barry Gilbert’s Jan. 24 letter about the planned closing of Johnson & Wales University’s Culinary Arts Museum and how it will be a great loss. This museum, located along the city’s harbor side, is an absolute gem for Providence and Rhode Island.

I am most grateful to Mr. Gilbert for alerting me to plans for the closing, as I did not see the original newspaper article.

I would hazard a guess that most Rhode Islanders do not even know this museum exists. I have had the pleasure of taking some of my grandchildren there as visitors. It provided a thoroughly enjoyable experience, allowing me and adult visitors to reminisce while it educated my children and grandchildren (and me) in a fun way about how Americans cooked and ate over the years. I believe that more publicity about this local gem would entice many more Rhode Islanders and tourists to visit.

State and city agencies dealing with tourism, arts and culture, education and commerce need to step up to the plate (no pun intended) to do all in their power to convince Johnson & Wales to keep its Culinary Arts Museum open to the public.

Grace Novick

Providence

Change of plans by Invenergy raises many questions

Invenergy's desperate attempts to find water for its monster plant in Burrillville have taken many twists and turns. Once it realized it couldn't open the poisoned well in Pascoag, the company went to Harrisville, which refused. Invenergy then turned to Woonsocket with a plan to install a 14 mile pipeline. When it realized the cost and likely community opposition, it abandoned the pipeline and announced that it had found a way to reduce its water needs by 80 percent.

The company told Woonsocket it would need only two or three truckloads of water a day. The night the Woonsocket City Council refused to "chase the bright, shiny object," Johnston surprised observers with a quick and quiet offer to supply the water.

But how did Invenergy suddenly reduce its need for water by 80,000 gallons a day? At a public meeting in Woonsocket on Jan. 6, an Invenergy spokesperson said the company would be using demineralization trailers that would allow water to be recycled.

There is an industry that provides such trailers, but it appears to offer them on a temporary basis for emergencies, maintenance, decommissioning, etc. So what is Invenergy planning here? The Energy Facility Siting Board must not be fooled. If the plan and the plant are radically changed, the investigation of the plant's impact on its neighbors should go back to square one.

This should not be rushed.

Earl McWilliams

Harrisville
Copyright © 2017 Providence Journal, All Rights Reserved.
