
Letters to the Editor
Newspaper November 15, 2016 | Richmond Times-Dispatch: Web Edition Articles (VA)
Author: Staff Writer Section: News 804 Words

Defacing statues

an act of cowardice

Editor, Times-Dispatch:

You really have to admire the courage and bravery of the stealthy protester(s) who risked it all under the cover of darkness to deface several statues. No doubt the spray-painted words "Your vote was a hate crime," will ring through history along with "Give me liberty or give me death," and other patriotic slogans. And it was done just in time for Veterans Day.

Remember our veterans? They're the guys and gals who risked it all — in broad daylight— to ensure we have the right to vote. And trust me, these people respect everyone's right to vote.

If it were up to me, I'd leave that slogan on the statues just to see if the culprit(s) would ever wake up one night, give thanks for everyone's vote, and be brave enough to clean up the mess.

But I doubt that would happen. It would require real courage.

Bill Fagan.

Midlothian.

Canceling classes

cheated students

Editor, Times-Dispatch:I am appalled at the post-election decisions by many of our schools of higher education to cancel classes.Will the students who wanted to attend classes but couldn't receive a refund on their tuition? Will the other students turn in pages from their coloring books on the day their assignments are due?

Crybabies do not get comfort from each other. Life is not a piece of cake. I was taught to go to school and get to work.

Go outside and breathe fresh air. Be grateful for what you have and be grateful for what you don't have. And remember to be kind.

Donna Gorman.

Richmond.

Don't think of

fetuses as human

Editor, Times-Dispatch:I cringe when you award Correspondent of the Day status to letter-writers who believe the childish fantasies of social conservatives — from their blithe acceptance of the magic in Christian mythology to their wishful notion of a God who monitors our daily lives.I cringe now because you awarded COD status to Jack A. Mayes Jr., "A statistic worse than gun deaths," who implies that the deaths of humans by gunshot wounds are comparable to the deaths (his word) of potential humans by abortion. Such a comparison is false.

Until fetuses exist in a viable state outside a woman's body, there is no reason to think of them as humans. We do not give these entities Social Security numbers or count them in the Census, and women who have abortions are not charged with murder.

A growing majority of women support this reasoning. Any biblical entreaty that unfettered nature must prevail (that all fetuses should come to term no matter what) simply melts away in light of all the ways we challenge nature in order to save and maintain human life.

Abortion has always been with us in the form of unknown or acknowledged miscarriages (thus abortion is part of nature). Elected abortion is chosen for all manner of sensible and humane reasons.

I'm hoping choice and anti-choice people wanting to promote human life will adopt and nurture the 100,000 children (those available for adoption) among the 400,000 unwanted children in our foster care system.

John Schuiteman.

Ashland.

Are we plebian

or deplorable?

Editor, Times-Dispatch:My wife and I read with amused interest the letter, "The plebians got their wish," from Bob Phillips.Since Hillary Clinton described people like us (people who hold a deep and abiding respect for America, for our Constitution, and for all Americans of all political inclinations) as deplorables and now Phillips defines us as plebians, we found ourselves in a quandary.

We do not know if we are deplorable or merely plebian. After much discussion, we decided we would be deplorable but self-identify as plebian. Presumably that self-identification will not affect our choice of restrooms.

Joe A Fortner.

Lanexa.

U.S. has chosen

the rule of law

Editor, Times-Dispatch:In 2008 and 2012 millions of Americans were devastated to realize that Barack Obama, with questionable ties to radical communists and Islamists, possessing a sketchy background and having absolutely no accomplishments to recommend him to the highest office in the world, was elected president. Not once did riots or civil unrest break out.Election Day 2016, after a year of watching Trump and his supporters attacked, belittled and relentlessly ridiculed, America swept Trump to victory in a landslide of electoral votes.

Immediately following this tremendous upset, college campuses across the country canceled classes and exams so students could mourn. Therapy puppies were summoned. Play-doh, coloring books and hot chocolate were provided to soothe these terrified, brainwashed, bed-wetting, thumb-sucking, overgrown brats.

True, Trump refused to commit himself to an official election result until fully investigated, if necessary. This was based on evidence of voter fraud. Electronic voting machines reportedly switched ballots from Trump to Hillary.

Currently, triggered babies are rioting. This is the Democratic Party of tolerance in action. Thank God America has chosen the rule of law, rejecting deadly and dangerous corruption.

Catherine Crabill.

Irvington.
© Copyright 2016, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
