
Letters to the Editor: Nov. 19, 2016
Newspaper November 18, 2016 | Richmond Times-Dispatch: Web Edition Articles (VA)
Author: Staff Writer Section: News 938 Words

It is up to us

to come together

Editor, Times-Dispatch:

I am afraid. Not because Donald Trump was elected president, but because of the response of an active and outspoken segment of society. It is resulting in disrespect and destruction of property of both our cities and our community peers.

I understand people are upset over the result. It has been a heated and trying time for everyone. What I don't understand is people vandalizing property and attacking people who may have voted differently.

We must all remember the future of our country is not held in the hands of the federal government, but in the hands of us, as individuals. To keep this country great, we must treat others as we would like to be treated. We must also behave in a way that considers how it affects others rather than just considering our own feelings and emotions.

Few would be willing to argue against the fact that more love and acceptance in our society would be an important step toward making our country better. But we must remember we cannot achieve this goal while our hearts are filled with hate and anger. Rise above and come together. No matter our differences, we must work together in peace to make progress and move forward. Take responsibility.

Ultimately, it is up to us what our country will become.

Michelle Aquilino.

Louisa.

Teachers are wrong

to frighten kids

Editor, Times-Dispatch:In Nan Ottenritter's letter, "Election produced profound grief," she related that her poetry teacher told her younger students that they all will bear the brunt of the Trump election.I find it sad and very troubling that some teachers feel that they have the license and duty to make children frightened of the man who will be their president for the next four or eight years. If teachers and adults have fears of Donald Trump, they have the right and maybe good reason to have these feelings, but it is irresponsible and dangerous to convey this fear onto children, particularly younger children.

In contrast, other Americans, requesting that a careful, measured response be given to the Syrian refugee crisis were labeled fear-mongering racists by many of the same people who feel the need to instill fear in our children.

Truly the height of hypocrisy.

Henry Adams.

Henrico.

Evangelicals turned out

for election

Editor, Times-Dispatch:Ever since the election, I have been mulling over the tremendous effect of the evangelical vote and Donald Trump's miraculous victory. Some sources indicate that about 80 percent of evangelicals voted for Trump. But if you studied each platform, that would have been a no-brainer.In this election, many evangelicals who had stayed home in the previous two elections knew they had to vote for their Christian convictions or submit to a totally secular society. There were a number of ministers who encouraged their congregations to vote for the platform without endorsing Trump.

I believe the incoming administration will include a good number of supporters who believe that this country was established by godly people and principles. If so, we may see our country change direction from where it has been headed for a number of years. Praise the Lord.

Jon A. Roach.

Midlothian.

Reader hopes

we'll see his view

Editor, Times-Dispatch:I was pleased to see your recent admission that widespread voter fraud does exist (there are more than 2,200 incidents under investigation in the Tampa Bay area alone) and that perhaps the Republicans were right. I'm still waiting for your acknowledgement that voter verification is not a Republican plot to disenfranchise minority voters.But it's a start. Perhaps we may hope for an acknowledgement that the Republican Party is not dead, as you claimed, now that it is in charge of Congress and the White House.

Maybe even someday, you will see that your wrongheaded support of allowing men into women's locker rooms because they feel like women is a gross overreach of political correctness to make a few people happy at the expense of everyone else. Would you like your daughter to shower in the presence of men?

As for anthropogenic global warming, I despair of your ever coming to see that the scientific theory is not fact, and tampering with contrary evidence and changing the way sea temperature is measured to support hypotheses is neither scientific nor evidence. But one can hope that you begin to think, instead of jumping on every politically correct bandwagon that comes down the pike.

John Killen.

Sarasota, Fl.

ACP approval

is a win-win for all

Editor, Times-Dispatch:The Atlantic Coast Pipeline (ACP) will positively impact millions of Virginians. The state is awaiting approval from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Once the commission concludes its analysis, it will solicit comments from the public.Anyone who cares about Virginia's future should let FERC know where they stand. We need our elected representatives to take the lead in generating support. The ACP is an interstate pipeline, hundreds of miles in length, that will serve Virginia and North Carolina with cleaner-burning natural gas.

Current estimates show the U.S. has a great supply of natural gas. It is a cleaner-burning fuel for electric generation and is a good alternative to coal.

Many in the agricultural community use propane gas and would greatly benefit from access to natural gas. For households and businesses, the ACP would help keep energy costs reasonable while also providing dependable energy. Communities along the path of the pipeline will benefit even more due to the economic activity spurred from construction and maintenance of the pipeline. Tax revenue could top $1 million annually.

ACP approval really amounts to a win-win scenario. Hopefully we can count on our leaders to do the right thing and convince the FERC to arrive at a similar conclusion.

James Lee.

Amelia.
© Copyright 2016, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
