
Letters to the Editor: Oct. 5, 2016
Newspaper October 4, 2016 | Richmond Times-Dispatch: Web Edition Articles (VA)
Author: Staff Writer Section: News 816 Words

Brat has done nothing

for him

Editor, Times-Dispatch:

Dave Brat is asking his constituents to hire him for another two years. But has he earned it?

Like his predecessor, Brat spends more time on his personal agenda than on the needs of his constituents. Eric Cantor's goal was his own personal advancement; Brat's is to push his vision of a free-market society in which government is no longer needed. Brat spent a good deal of his time during his two years in Congress writing his book and appearing on numerous conservative talk shows.

Brat's concentration on his own agenda shows up in his complete failure as a legislator, the job he was elected to carry out. According to the Library of Congress, Brat has sponsored 21 pieces of legislation since he has been in Congress. Only one of them — to name the arboretum at Richmond's McGuire veterans hospital — has become law. That's a success rate of less than 5 percent. Brat has co-sponsored 232 pieces of legislation. Only five of them have become law and two of those were ceremonial bills honoring Boys Town and the marchers at Selma. That's a success rate of 2 percent. And remember that his poor legislative record has occurred in a Congress controlled by the Republican Party, supposedly his own party.

Brat has done nothing for me. I'm voting for Eileen Bedell for Congress in the 7th District.

Bert Berlin.

Henrico.

Cowardly editors

should conform to region

Editor, Times-Dispatch:Presidential candidate Gary Johnson is nowhere near worthy of serious consideration. It is ridiculous that this paper put its support behind his candidacy.

Richmond and Virginia will vote for Hillary Clinton. The Republican running for the position is an insane person.

Why is this paper so cowardly as to support Johnson? Why would a bunch of level-headed newspaper folks throw the sort of tantrum we expect from an uninformed teenager?

Grow up. And while you're at it, try to fit your editorial staff with the general outlook of this city, which deserves to be taken far more seriously than the current staff allows. Throwing our city's paper behind Johnson makes us all look like foolish yokels.

Brian Castleberry.

Richmond.

Progressive politics

are drowning U.S.

Editor, Times-Dispatch:For the past year, I've had a recurring nightmare: Lady Liberty is knocked from her pedestal by rowdy protesters and as I watch helplessly, she slips beneath the waves of New York Harbor.

After eight years of assault by President Barack Obama, this nightmare is becoming a reality. In 2016, racial animus is the most pronounced since the Selma march. Fear of a homeland attack is greater than during the Cold War. Less than 20 percent of Americans trust the federal government and globally, our adversaries insult America with growing frequency and contempt.

This sad state of affairs is the consequence of several progressive dynamics: union-abetted incompetence in public schools and intolerance of countervailing thought on college campuses; the chaos caused by open national borders, sanctuary cities and incessant criticism of police; dissolution of families caused by liberals' entitlement-for-votes compact with minorities; the unwillingness to even speak the words radical Islamic terrorism; the blatant use of government agencies to punish political opponents, enforce unconstitutional executive orders and cover up widespread corruption; and a spiritual unmooring, reflecting the expulsion of God from the town square. These influences, coupled with an epidemic of political correctness and unvarnished media bias, have effectively jammed the gears of democracy.

The pivotal question facing America is how can Lady Liberty be returned to her rightful pose? Until Americans' faith in the Almighty supersedes their preoccupation with self and until they inform themselves on key issues and demand accountability from their elected officials, this country can never again be the shining city on the hill. The nominations of Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton are testaments to voters' failure to perform their pivotal role in the determination of America's future.

Should Lady Liberty drown, we have only ourselves to blame.

Tony Davis.

Manakin-Sabot.

Vote fraud case looks like

a GOP plot

Editor, Times-Dispatch:I have to admire the creative ingenuity of the Republicans in light of the new voter-fraud allegations here in Virginia.

About 20 cases of alleged voter fraud suddenly popped up, featuring dead people as the registrants. One was a well-known local official, which was what aroused suspicions. How convenient.

You don't need to be a genius to see what is going on here: With the GOP losing the argument regarding voter fraud, and the courts taking away its ability to purge the rolls of Democrat-leaning voters, what better way to load the issue in their favor than to create an "incident"?

I sincerely believe that this incident was manufactured by the right as a way of saying, "See, we told you so."

The GOP has a long, sordid history of creating so-called problems to go along with their "solutions" — solutions that disenfranchise or eliminate the opposition — and this looks to be just one more.

Jeffrey Malo.

Richmond.
© Copyright 2016, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
