
Dominion towers would mar scenery
Newspaper October 13, 2016 | Richmond Times-Dispatch (VA)
Author: Staff Section: Main 917 Words
Page: 8A

Editor, Times-Dispatch:

In his recent Op/Ed column, "Preserving our past, enriching our future," Dominion CEO Robert M. Blue voiced his appreciation for Virginia's history while addressing the company's proposed transmission line project across the James River. Unfortunately, as the National Trust for Historic Preservation, Preservation Virginia, the National Park Service and many other national and regional preservation and conservation organizations have pointed out, Dominion's proposal in fact threatens to harm some of the most historically significant sites in the commonwealth. As a result, just this week, the James River was included among the Trust's annual list of 11 most endangered historic sites in the country.

Blue spends much time trying to minimize the transmission line's potential impacts. But the proposed line would route 17 towers up to 295 feet tall - towers almost as tall as the Statue of Liberty - across the river where visitors from around the world come to experience early American history. This line would negatively impact Colonial National Park, Jamestown Island, Carter's Grove Plantation, and the Captain John Smith Chesapeake National Historic Trail. We owe it to future generations to prevent this from happening.

Blue also suggests there are no possible alternatives to Dominion's preferred project. But alternatives do exist - among them are putting the lines below ground or relocating them to a less historic area of Virginia. In fact, this project is currently under review by the Army Corps of Engineers, who we hope will prepare an environmental impact statement that includes a robust and independent review of alternatives. Only then can we fully "preserve our past and enrich our future" at Jamestown.

Stephanie K. Meeks,

President and CEO,National Trust for Historic Preservation.Washington.

Elections are rigged

by the wealthy

Editor, Times-Dispatch:

Donald Trump says that the election may be "rigged." His reasons are different from mine, but my sense is that they are rigged.

With hundreds of millions of dollars being spent on campaigns by anonymous millionaire and billionaire donors, my few pennies are a drop in the bucket. Not only is this "dark money" controlling the outcome of elections, but it provides undue access to the politicians by those who give the big bucks.Recent state legislatures, including Virginia, under the false pretense of voter fraud, have made it more difficult for minority, elderly and disabled voters to vote. By limiting voting days and times, and by mandating picture IDs, there is the echo of the bygone days of poll taxes and literacy tests.Rather than voters choosing their General Assembly and congressional legislators, the legislators, by manipulating the district lines, are choosing the voters. Rather than free market elections we have an electoral monopoly. The result: I have little incentive to vote because the gerrymandering has voided competition.

Any one of these is disturbing enough but in combination, our very democratic process is in jeopardy. The old adage of one person, one vote is out of date when elections are controlled by the wealthy and the very people who are being elected. Sadly, I call that rigged.

J. Fletcher Lowe, Jr.

Richmond.

About that

Johnson endorsement. . .

Editor, Times-Dispatch:On your endorsement of Libertarian presidential candidate Gary Johnson:

Now that he has both fumbled the significance of Aleppo and could not name any current world leaders he admires, any chance you might reconsider your endorsement of this unprepared, less-than-inspiring third-party candidate?

I understand that it goes against the very fiber of your being as an institution, generally, to support a Democrat, but considering the actual choices, their policy positions and the very real challenges our next president will be facing, in what way is selecting Johnson a reasoned and responsible choice?

I do appreciate your reasoning in not being able to support Trump, and you all seem to make such good calls on so many other subjects. I would hope you might display enough of the same objectivity in your endorsement and allow yourselves to place country before bias.

William Howe.

Richmond.

ACP also endangers

the sacred

Editor, Times-Dispatch:Thank you for your editorial, "Tribes invoke sacred reasons to oppose Dakota pipeline." In Virginia, the sacred is also in danger of desecration by the Atlantic Coast Pipeline. Dominion plans to construct both the pipeline and a compression station in Buckingham County right next to an African-American church, Union Hill Baptist Church, and the historical graveyard of the ancestors of its congregation.

Dominion also plans to put the pipeline and compressor station right next to Yogaville and the Light of Truth Universal Shrine. It certainly would be difficult to pray and meditate near a huge, noisy, dirty, vibrating, and dangerous compressor station and the destructive construction of the pipeline. Apparently Dominion respects neither a Christian church nor yoga. Please stand against the Atlantic Coast Pipeline and its disrespectfully located compressor station.

Mary Beth Keller.

Scottsville.

Pence won debate

in a landslide

Editor, Times-Dispatch:As a Virginian, I was embarrassed by Tim Kaine's debate performance. In a word, he was obnoxious. He constantly interrupted and talked over Mike Pence. Kaine added little to address key issues.

His over scripted mantra of Donald Trump's ancient history comments and his continuous "Trump needs to give us his tax records" were irritating and tiresome. It took the moderator an hour and 20 minutes before she finally asked Kaine to let Pence answer the question.

Unfortunately, she lost control at the beginning and was obviously in over her head. While Kaine was as antsy as a preschooler, Pence was tolerant, in control and knowledgeable. If one asks which vice presidential candidate would, in an emergency, be able to assume the presidency, Pence wins in a landslide.

C.J. Goode,Jr.

Glen Allen.
© Copyright 2016, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
