
Time doesn't dim Holocaust horrors
Newspaper October 15, 2016 | Richmond Times-Dispatch (VA)
Author: Staff Section: Main 2423 Words
Page: 8A

Editor, Times-Dispatch:

Memories of the Holocaust come vividly alive at the mere mention of Nuremberg. In his letter, "Heed the lessons of Nuremberg," Correspondent of the Day Larry Barthurst excellently explains the legal aspects of one of history's most important trials.

After some 71 years, visions of the men seated in the Nuremberg courtroom still send shivers through those who survived. Time does little to erase those monstrous crimes.

Frances Nunnally.

Richmond.

Is Trump what we want for America?

Editor, Times-Dispatch:We have recently discovered that one of two candidates who would be president may not have paid income taxes for 18 years. And we heard Donald Trump claim that he could kill somebody on Fifth Avenue in full daylight and still be elected president. Now, a 2005 video recording has come to light that shows the world his shameful and disgusting opinions about and actions toward women.

His choristers elevated him to genius status. They made him the Leonardo da Vinci of the economy, the Einstein of a complex code of tax laws and rules. Despite the economic crises of 2008, Trump remained one the richest Americans even as he avoided payment of income taxes. What does one call honest citizens who paid all taxes despite the crisis? Stupid, idiotic, ignorant? And our women? Are they all just objects for this man who is aspiring to be president? Shame on him and on those who will vote for him.

This poses some very serious questions about values and civic virtues among some aspiring leaders. Is it ethical to avoid paying one's share to the well-being of the entire community and become richer and richer? Why bother to be honest? Is it moral for somebody who aspires to become leader of the free world to offend women and preach violence?

Cicero would have said: "O tempora, o mores" (what times, what values).

Will America still be the great country of our Founding Fathers and Ronald Reagan's shining city on a hill or will it become the darkest city at the bottom of Hell?

It is up on us to decide on Nov. 8.

Antonio Masullo.

Richmond.

Clinton will misinterpret her win

Editor, Times-Dispatch:If Hillary Clinton is elected president, her real mandate from the voters will be the limited one of not being Donald Trump, who has embarrassed his supporters yet again with his crude remarks. Unfortunately, she is unlikely to see it that way, and can be expected to act like she has a mandate for the long list of left-of-center policy positions she has taken in the campaign.

James G. Russell.

Midlothian.

Clinton should never be president

Editor, Times-Dispatch:There are two major reasons why Hillary Clinton should never be president. In nearly 30 years of public service at three different levels (first lady, senator, secretary of state), she has no major accomplishments. And she simply cannot tell the truth about anything.As first lady (1992-2000), she was in charge of coordinating her husband's most important policy initiative involving health care reform. The bill became known as Hillarycare and was soundly defeated on the floor of Congress in 1994.

As a U.S. senator, Clinton had a remarkably undistinguished record. A measure of any senator's effectiveness is his or her success in getting legislation passed. In her six years in Congress, Clinton sponsored 337 bills but only two became law - ranking her as one of the least effective members of the Senate.

Her tenure as secretary of state saw no major treaties or peace agreements, no human rights breakthroughs, nor arms deals or easing of tensions. In fact, it can be argued that not a single area of the world is any better off as a result of her tenure as secretary of state.

Clinton is also disqualified to be president because of her lack of truthfulness. From her lie about leaving the White House "dead broke" to the obvious truth about the Benghazi deaths, her callous disregard for the truth is shocking. Even the FBI director, after investigating her mishandling of classified emails, called her "extremely careless" and directly contradicted her claim that no classified data had been sent on her private server.

We do not expect perfection in our presidents, but we do expect honesty, integrity and some measure of accomplishment in the private or public sector of their lives. Clinton has none of these attributes.

David H. Edmunds.

Midlothian.

Where are the movies about blacks?

Editor, Times-Dispatch:Attorney General Eric Holder accused citizens of being racial cowards and afraid to have frank discussion about race. But he never elaborated on exactly what he meant nor did he initiate the conversation afterward. He stirred the pot but forgot to cook it.

According to Thomas Burrell, blacks are the most brainwashed of all people when it comes to their own race's self-worth. They even refuse to patronize other black businesses, proclaiming subliminally to the world that the white store owners' ice is colder than the ice sold by their black counterparts.

Movies have been one of the biggest perpetrators when it comes to putting white people on a pedestal over other races. The Alamo has been covered many times but never includes the inconvenient truth that two runaways who were being forced to do slave work, sought and received refuge from the Mexicans. This was the last straw for the Southerners who had flooded into Texas.

A film about Nat Turner, a man who did what any white man would have done in revolting against forced servitude, is forthcoming. An infamous rap musician, wallowing in self-hatred and effeminism, and saying exactly what whites want to hear, said he was tired of such movies - even though there have hardly been any made. This exposes the mis-education of said person and the godawfulness of rap music - which is detrimental to blacks' well being.

When it comes to the hip hop culture and the ignorance it exposes youth to, I wish hip would promptly hop out the door. Movies have covered everything in history, except black people.

Bernard Gordon.

Glen Allen.

Trump acts like a teenage bully

Editor, Times-Dispatch:

Donald Trump's 2005 video is reminiscent of the bluster on a high school team bus. Even the petty bluster, after being rebuffed by a girl, is familiar. Most of us matured. Trump did not.

Women, and those who respect women, are rightly incensed. One Trump statement goes far beyond women. To say that if you are rich or famous enough others accept whatever you do, is frightening. This is not an attitude that changes over time, as his pseudo-apology claims.

Are we really ready for the teenage class bully to be running our country? Even worse, are we ready for that same bully to be in position to lash out with the might of this country against the rest of the world?

A former loyal Republican,

Elmer Watts.

Cartersville.

Election is a sad state of affairs

Editor, Times-Dispatch:It's a sad state of affairs to face yet another gaffe by the GOP's candidate for the most prestigious job in the free world. Horrific, salacious, insulting, childish and irresponsible just to name a few adjectives for the wonder boy. Were he a shoe salesman, he would never have to go back to the stockroom, he could just reach into his mouth.

When I read the front-page news article on Donald Trump's comments from 11 years ago, I began to look for an article describing WikiLeaks discovery of materials in Hillary Clinton's speeches regarding her hope for open borders, the single-payer health care such as Canada's and her description of Bernie Sanders followers as being a "bucket full of losers." I suspect that Debbie Wasserman Shultz was quite busy throwing sand over this comment in the sandbox.

If a conversation should be had about Trump's hideous remarks, it would be only fair to discuss the actions, not just words, of Bill Clinton and his list of ladies: Eileen Wellstone, Juanita Broaddrick, Kathleen Willey, Paula Jones, Dolly Kyle, Gennifer Flowers, and the precious little Monica Lewinsky. I know it is not Bill but rather Hillary running for office. However, at the least, her comments about these women being "trailer trash and narcissistic looney tunes" should be addressed by the woman who claims rape victims should never be silenced because they are not believed.

Uncouth and crude, no doubt, but on the other hand, Trump wasn't the source of criminal investigations by the FBI, like Hillary Clinton, nor accused of rape and numerous sexual assaults like Bill Clinton.

And, the Clinton Foundation should be investigated as a RICO organization - but then, that doesn't seem to glean any interest. I am nauseated.

Gregory E. Will.

New Kent.

Would candidates help the hungry?

Editor, Times-Dispatch:This presidential election season has been filled with questions for those who hunger for the presidency. Are the candidates fit? Are they healthy? Are they qualified to make a difference for the nation? Questions have come up about their character. Many see both of the candidates' intentions as half-full or half-empty.

After hours of debates asking again and again if the presidency is supportive of the top 1 percent, the military or the middle class, I have a question yet to be asked of the candidates: Is the presidency supportive of one who hungers?

Is the presidency mindful of and concerned for the 42 million hungry Americans? The more than 900,000 hungry Virginians - including 300,000 hungry children? Are these people fit? Are they healthy? Are they qualified to make a difference for the nation? What about their character? Do we view their intentions as half-full of hope or with a half-empty suspicion?

Ever since Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump became nationwide candidates, both have received a Secret Service circle of protection. It allows them some sense of freedom to live out this campaign with a safety net around them. But what about the circle of protection for the most vulnerable in our society? What safety net do we intend to provide them?

While our attention focuses on those who would sit at the top position in the land, do we not want a president whose attention is also mindful upon the most needy?

Millions of Americans are engaged actively in acts of charity for the hungry. So many see the need or feel the need. Tim Kaine and Mike Pence are known to us as leaders of compassion. What would their administrations seek to do for the hungry in our nation?

Bishop James F. Mauney,

Virginia Synod,Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.Washington.

Kaine's pedestrian behavior was sad

Editor, Times-Dispatch:

During the recent vice presidential debate, Gov. Mike Pence's calm and direct way of speaking reminded me of how we used to discourse in commonwealth.

Sen. Tim Kaine's constant accusations and interruptions and his fidgety, overwrought body language left him the loser on both style and content.

Pence trumped Kaine on both style and content - especially when discussing immigration, Russia and the Clinton Foundation in a reasonable manner.

It was sad for our Old Dominion to be nationally represented by such a pedestrian candidate.

Raymond B. Wallace Jr.

Richmond.***

Editor, Times-Dispatch:

Sen. Tim Kaine is an embarrassment to Virginians and the entire nation. During the recent vice presidential debate, he was rude, obnoxious and he clearly did not want the viewers to hear what Gov. Mike Pence had to say.

Kaine's opposition to the death penalty for those convicted of heinous crimes while supporting the killing of innocents right up to the moment of birth is outrageous and the height of hypocrisy.

Unfortunately, Kaine represents everything that is wrong with Washington.

John Lane.

Charlotte, N.C.

Kaine makes Clinton more appealing

Editor, Times-Dispatch:Are you experiencing any buyer's remorse regarding your endorsement of Libertarian Gary Johnson? If you are, I empathize completely. For many of us, a Trump/Clinton choice causes us to wish that a viable alternative existed. You may have jumped precipitously to support someone who appeared to offer an acceptable third choice.

Your endorsement sounds as if you had a very nice meeting with Johnson and found him reasonable and attractive. But did you really explore his libertarianism? After all, he is not running as an independent but as a Libertarian; and while aspects of the party's platform may seem attractive, others, such as the privatization of Social Security and abolition of every other federal program and agency not specifically established by the Constitution, warrant serious scrutiny.

Did you discuss issues such as the Middle East mess, or the national security threats we face from cyber warfare, or North Korea, or how he might deal with our serious income disparity here at home?

Granted, none of us has heard anything impressive on these subjects from Donald Trump, and granted, Hillary Clinton has personal baggage, but does that warrant jumping to embrace a Libertarian who is virtually unknown outside New Mexico?

Rethink the merits of Clinton's experience, especially when coupled with a truly fine running mate. The role of vice president has varied from administration to administration, but right now we have an exceptionally strong potential No. 2 in Sen. Tim Kaine. It is to Clinton's credit that she chose him, and it may be the saving grace for the country that he would be at her side.

Mary Elizabeth Hoinkes.

Hartfield.

Brat is who we need right now

Editor, Times-Dispatch:Lawlessness among our politicians is unacceptable. The non-enforcement of current immigration law and illegal voter registration are recipes for fraud, yet the Democratic Party is doing everything in its power to make it easy for noncitizens to show up at the voting booth with a ballot in hand.

Good Democrats need to take back their party from the corrupt. The Republicans ran off their bad eggs. The Democrats need to do the same. We need to get rid of our arrogant leaders who think they are above the law. The Democratic Party faithful demand no integrity or honor from their leaders.

Republicans will eventually gain the governorship and the presidency back. What do you think will happen then? Politicians do not get to pick and choose the laws they want to defend. They take an oath to defend all of the laws. When are they going to honor their oath?

Voter fraud is another reason the American people feel like they are losing their country, and we need leaders who are willing to stand up to the establishment and on the side of citizens. Rep. Dave Brat is one of those people. As someone who worked for the World Bank as a Ph.D. economist and who went to seminary, he has a deep understanding of the global influences at play and their impact on free markets and is willing to speak up for the key values and traditions that made our country great. Not many of today's politicians are willing to do that.

Thomas Wade.

Chesterfield.
© Copyright 2016, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
