
Kudos to Holmberg for sensible solution
Newspaper October 30, 2016 | Richmond Times-Dispatch (VA)
Author: Staff Section: Commentary 838 Words
Page: 2E

Editor, Times-Dispatch:

As a retired teacher and the mother of a police officer, I applaud Mark Holmberg's sensible and workable solution to the tense relations between many citizens and the police.

If we all devoted ourselves to teaching (and modeling) "Act Right" principles, not only would relations between the police and those they serve improve, but so would our students' school attendance, behavior and academic success. Everyone wins when we act right.

Marjorie Reed.

Midlothian.

Democratic contempt

for Catholics

Editor, Times-Dispatch:The past eight years of our government was elected for change. We started the 1960s by electing John F. Kennedy, a young Catholic Democrat who said in a speech: "My fellow Americans, ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country."

Is the change complete now? Recent emails exposed by WikiLeaks show that the top Democratic leadership feels disrespect and contempt for Catholics. What strategy is the Democratic Party employing by nominating a Catholic for vice president?

Wes Harman.

Chesterfield.

Things were simpler

back then

Editor, Times-Dispatch:In the Oct. 25 "Today in History" was this annotation: "In 1929, former Interior Secretary Albert B. Fall was convicted in Washington, D.C. of accepting a $100,000 bribe from oil tycoon Edward L. Doheny. (Fall was sentenced to a year in prison and fined $100,000; he ended up serving nine months."

Ah - the good old days.

Patricia Comess.

Henrico.

Don't just complain,

do something

Editor, Times-Dispatch:Kudos to Nicole A. Subryan ("Trump insulted millions of Americans") for raising a "handsome, intelligent and articulate 16-year-old young man." However, one may look askance at how a seemingly intelligent person has arrived at her somewhat specious conclusions. While there are undeniable problems with some aspects of law enforcement that need to be addressed, she may have reversed her logic in thinking that she will get a call that her son has been shot "not by my neighbors, but by the police." She may want to investigate the recent Richmond homicide statistics a bit further.

I wonder also if Subryan has been harassed by anyone flying the Confederate flag as she drives down "any back road." Somehow, she mixes all this together, along with the "perpetual stain of slavery" and comes to the conclusion that this is all the fault of Donald Trump. I am no fan of Trump or Hillary Clinton, but perhaps Subryan should look beyond her myopic unflagging support of Clinton before making Trump out to be Satan incarnate, and delivering all the woes of the world, past and present, at his doorstep. Like Subryan, I live in the "former heart of the Confederacy"and when speaking with young African-Americans, find that they know little, if anything, about Martin Luther King, let alone other African-American social revolutionaries such as Marcus Garvey, W.E.B. Dubois, Malcolm X, Thurgood Marshall, etc.

Instead of hurling vitriolic rhetoric at perceived enemies, perhaps Subryan should try to work within her community to bring people of all races together, and stop blaming other people for her woes. If she has such fear of the police, she should encourage her son to go into law enforcement. Like the old saying goes, if you're not part of the solution, you're part of the problem.

Ken Wootton Sr.

Richmond.

Choose a leader

who represents all

Editor, Times-Dispatch:The elections are just around the corner. All eligible voters, regardless of their opinions of the candidates, need to go out and vote. It is a citizen's responsibility to vote when given the chance.

This election is an extremely important one, because all eyes are on the U.S. The next leader we choose will not only be our leader, but he or she will be an international figure who represents the United States to the rest of the world. I implore everyone to think long and hard about who he or she is willing to support.

As a Muslim, I take it as my civic duty to participate in this election and take pride in being part of a nation that gives me the freedom to choose who I want for as president. I encourage the Muslim community as a whole to do so as well. Together we can choose a leader who is a respectable leader and has the decency to respect all communities of this great nation.

Faizan Tariq.

Richmond.

Voter registration

needs verifying

Editor, Times-Dispatch:The "voter fraud" basketball keeps getting bounced around by both ends of the political spectrum, with each side claiming they have both proof and no proof.

There would be no discussion of voter fraud if the people had confidence that every registration application received thorough processing to verify checked boxes on citizen status and Social Security numbers as well as current addresses located in the proper precincts.

This current administration is not interested in a person's legal status and local registrars are swamped near election time. And even though Social Security numbers are assumed to be valid, we have found the names of dead people registered by those seeking to increase voter turnout.

There is a need for application of the registration system that would instill confidence that every registered voter is eligible to be just that.

Larry Eavey.

Richmond.
© Copyright 2016, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
