
Letters to the Editor, Oct. 21, 2016
Newspaper October 20, 2016 | Richmond Times-Dispatch: Web Edition Articles (VA)
Author: Staff Writer Section: News 915 Words

Brat is right

on security concerns

Editor, Times-Dispatch:

We live in a perilous world and national security is a major concern. Rep. Dave Brat has brought it to my attention that our growing national debt will soon have major implications for our national security. He is not the only one saying so. Many prominent national security figures believe that our long-term debt will inevitably constrain funding for a strong military and national defense.

Over the past eight years we have nearly doubled our national debt while the world's bad actors have dramatically increased their activities. Russia has reintroduced itself into the Middle East, boxing us in in Syria and threatening NATO with its proxy war in the Ukraine. China seeks to develop the means to project military power beyond its borders and build a blue-water navy threatening our Pacific pre-eminence. On top of that, we face the threat of radical Islamic terror, and a massive shift in migration in Europe that nobody seems to have a handle on.

To meet these threats and project our own strength we need substantial federal funding for our foreign policy. However, as Brat has pointed out, the gigantic national debt is taking a larger portion of our discretionary spending and shrinking the federal funding for our most necessary national priorities. While our adversaries grow in strength we diminish in influence and the world begins to slip into a more brutal and ugly place.

I'm proud that my congressman is working hard to change the unsustainable fiscal path that threatens the financial resources we need to provide for our country's vital national defense.

David Kraft.

Richmond.

Vote for Bedell

to do something

Editor, Times-Dispatch:Election Day is only a few weeks away. The voters of Virginia's 7th District can make their mark on how Congress operates. We can either vote for Rep. Dave Brat and endure more of the same gridlock and obstructionism or we can get Congress working together again by voting for Eileen Bedell, our Democratic candidate for the 7th District.

Bedell is a mother, lawyer and successful small business owner. She is committed to improving and preserving Social Security and Medicare for our seniors. She believes in gun owners' rights; however, she wants to close dangerous loopholes by adding simple checks and balances. She will be a champion of living wages, enhancing business opportunities, supporting job growth and protecting hard-won civil rights for all people. Bedell will work across the aisle in Congress to help improve public and higher education and access to affordable health care for everyone. She believes in sensible immigration reform, reining in wasteful military spending and preserving our fragile environment.

Brat has done virtually nothing in the two years he's been our representative. GovTrack.com shows he ranks last of all Virginians in Congress for acting in a bipartisan way and reaching out across the aisle. The only bill he introduced that was passed was to name the arboretum at McGuire Medical Center. He ranked next-to-last of all Virginia representatives who co-sponsored legislation. This behavior clearly exemplifies Brat's gridlock mentality that we've been subjected to by Republicans in Congress for the past six years.

Make a positive difference in Washington. Vote for Bedell, a candidate who will do something.

Debra Markel.

Manakin-Sabot.

We aren't

electing the pope

Editor, Times-Dispatch:Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli of Great Britain in the 19th century said: "There is no act of treachery or meanness of which a political party is not capable, for in politics there is no honor."

This brings us to the case of the Donald Trump video published by obvious Hillary Clinton supporters NBC and the Washington Post. Both of those media outlets decided to violate a sacred journalistic covenant of not publishing "off the record" comments. They did so to destroy the candidacy of Trump. Americans are right to be appalled by the video, but their disgust is misplaced. Real outrage should be directed at the news organizations involved. The video should never have been made public. Women are coming forward at the 11th hour to complain about Trump groping them years ago. Until now they have remained quiet, but Trump is running for president and the media believe the end justifies the means.

American needs a shrewd businessman at the helm. We are almost $20 trillion in debt and the interest payments are staggering. Law and order are out of control in many cities. Blue-collar workers have been screwed by the global economy. They deserve a break. Americans should overlook Trump's conduct, which is no worse than that of Bill Clinton when he was president. Real change is what we need — not more of the same. We are not electing a pope.

Paul Schoenbaum.

Williamsburg.

Solution for

voter fraud issues

Editor, Times-Dispatch:In an Oct. 14 Times-Dispatch news article, reporter Graham Moomaw reports on a committee meeting on "election readiness" called by General Assembly Republicans. This piece of political theater delivered bipartisan, core-constituency public relations opportunities for two GA members running for U.S. Congress (Sen. Donald McEachin, D, and Sen. Thomas Garrett, R), but the transparent purpose was to establish a foundation for allegations of fraud in next month's election by undermining public confidence in the process.

Moomaw reports that several registrars claim to have referred instances of voter fraud to law enforcement without any resulting prosecutions. As a solutions-oriented individual, I'd like to propose that the local registrars be granted enforcement authority with election laws, much like the Virginia ABC has over alcohol laws. Why, they could even have spiffy uniforms symbolic of desired purity of the elections: white robes and hoods.

Delaney Blom.

Richmond.
© Copyright 2016, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
