
Letters to the Editor, Dec. 3, 2015
Newspaper December 2, 2016 | Richmond Times-Dispatch: Web Edition Articles (VA)
Author: Staff Writer Section: News 874 Words

Stopping meds

can cause relapse

Editor, Times-Dispatch:

Regarding the recent front page story, "After treatment, Hanover mother writes book about mental illness," I was pleased to see someone who has battled mental illness be willing to share her story. I was disappointed, however, in Maria Mansfield's unwillingness to use her real name in her book or your article, her rationale not withstanding. (Though publishing her picture would seem to defeat her purpose.) Her decision feeds the continued perception that mental illness is something to be ashamed of and hidden.

My primary motivation for writing, however, is the statement that "Maria decided she would write a book about her experiences only if she could stop taking her medications." Her decision could be deadly. Tragically, suicide is often the end result of the battle with mental illness. Mental health professionals are virtually unanimous in their assessment that people whose illness is controlled by medication and who choose to discontinue its use are at a very high risk of recurrence. And usually, with recurrence, the accompanying symptoms are far worse than they were during the initial onset. While it is true that this scenario does not always play out, and that in some cases medications may be safely discontinued, the risk of an even more horrific and debilitating return of the disease is still very real.

I do hope that Mansfield is aware of the more-than-remote possibility that she is in danger of relapse if she is still not taking her medications. Additionally, I pray that none will follow her lead in discontinuing their medications without first consulting a psychiatrist, the only health care professional adequately trained to manage mental health medications.

Kirby D. Smith.

Midlothian.

Trump is our president-elect

Editor, Times-Dispatch:Donald Trump's claim of massive voting by noncitizens and Jill Stein and Hillary Clinton's claims of foreign hacking of voter machines have one thing in common: There is not the faintest scintilla of evidence to support either claim.

Trump claims that voter fraud cost him the popular vote. The magnitude of the hype over the popular vote is matched only by its irrelevance.

The reality is that Trump won the Electoral College, which is the only contest that matters. Trump is president-elect and no vote recount is going to change it.

Thomas J. Kunsitis.

Richmond.

Accidents don't make

legal acts illegal

Editor, Times-Dispatch:Ex post facto laws are unconstitutional. We cannot define an activity as illegal after commission of the act if it was legal while being committed. However, the common charge in Virginia for "reckless driving generally" applies to the manner of your driving and is evaluated by whether your driving manner endangered either a person or property (VA Code Section 46.2-852). This law applies after an accident.

What happens is a legal activity is made illegal ex post facto. If you are speeding and cause an accident, it makes sense that criminal penalties apply. Speeding is illegal. But if you are changing a radio station, and get into an accident, you are a criminal also. It is not illegal to change a radio station but you would be guilty regardless. I saw such a verdict recently. This provision of the law can make any lawful activity (albeit a mistake) a criminal offense.

Helene Hannan. Henrico.

Sometimes

xenophobia is good

Editor, Times-Dispatch:I read with astonishment the recent Associated Press news article naming "xenophobia" the dictionary.com word of the year. I was astonished at the level to which supposed experts have sunk to when it comes to political correctness.The word xenophobia is neither an indicator of good nor of bad. It is simply a word with a definition. There can be bad xenophobia and there can be good xenophobia. During World War II we hated and were afraid of the Germans and the Japanese. Under the dictionary definition we were xenophobic and with good reason.

Today, terrorism by radical Islamists has caused us to fear some Muslims. Especially young male Muslims. (Granted, there have been documented attacks by young female Muslims but that is splitting hairs.) Unfortunately, both the media and the political correctness crowd have tried to shut down all discussion — in violation of the Constitution and sanity.

Logic and reason have gone out the window. Logic dictates if the majority of terrorist attacks are perpetrated by young Muslims and if we can't reasonably determine if an individual young Muslim trying to enter this country is or is not a terrorist, then we should not let that person in. This example is a classic case of good xenophobia.

Alexander Conrad.

Henrico.

Other colleges

fly flag proudly

Editor, Times-Dispatch:Hampshire College in Amherst, Massachusetts, decided to quit flying the American flag. The school's president, Jonathan Lash, met with students to help make this unpatriotic decision.

I highly recommend that Lash and his students visit High Point University in High Point, North Carolina. HPU's campus is adorned with more than 100 American flags that are flown each and every day.

HPU president, Dr. Nido Qubein, a Lebanese immigrant, believes and propagates the HPU mantra of God-Family-Country. Lash might learn a valuable lesson.

David E. Cottrell.

Richmond.

Trump needs

to do some reading

Editor, Times-Dispatch:Given the verbose rhetoric from Donald Trump during the campaign and his recent protestations regarding the "rigged" elections, it is obvious that he needs to reread the story of the boy who cried wolf.

Karl Wagner.

Henrico.
© Copyright 2016, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
