
Letters
Newspaper November 25, 2016 | Rutland Herald (VT)
Section: Letters 892 Words
Article Page: 4

The real meaning of gratitude

When people gather around the loaded Thanksgiving table full with a plump turkey, mashed potatoes and the classic stuffing, they give thanks. They are spreading gratitude among themselves and each other, why? Before families and friends dig into their filling meal, they usually say a prayer and go over what they are thankful for. Sometimes, we forget that be thankful for what we have, and we often take some things for granted. But everyone has something they are grateful for, we just don’t realize it all the time.

Oftentimes, we need a reminder about gratitude and what it means. Gratitude is the act or quality of being grateful. In our area, Rutland, people will often see a homeless person here or there, and they don’t even stop or acknowledge them. We don’t appreciate our lives compared to theirs and we really should. But you can show gratitude in other ways. Instead of just ignoring that homeless person, you could stop and say hello, or buy them a much-needed lunch.

Help your fellow citizens who can’t help themselves and make a difference. You can donate your time at the Open Door Mission in Rutland. Call for more information at 775-5661. Be a role model and volunteer today.

EVELYN ANN RUSHING

Chittenden

Corrupt media will not endure

The oped in the Nov. 23 Herald is one that is the epitome of arrogance, condescension and just plain untrue writing. The call of arrogance on the part of Mr. Trump, because he has chosen to go directly to the people, as Ronald Reagan did, because of the deficiencies, shortcomings with intentional error-ridden “news” is not in keeping with the quality of work that Americans look for and expect in today’s marketplace of reporting, be it written or otherwise.

Laura Ingraham pointed this out very eloquently at the Republican Convention back in the summer.

The media’s attempts to derail President-elect Trump will not work, just as they did not work during Reagan’s eight years in office. Those that do attempt to get it right and make note when in error, are enjoying much higher ratings that the others do. The media and some politicians cannot understand that the Obama years of producing little for the most part only what one would expect from an incompetent and delusional leader, is not the norm and is to be rejected, as it was on Nov. 8. The left-wing media will never get this; even when their business entities are on the verge of collapse, such as the Rutland Herald a few months ago.

Thank goodness, the American people do get it, however. They get it because they have discovered how to get the real stories and accurate reporting.

JAMES HALL

Center Rutland

Not the majority who always win

In attempting to defend the Electoral College system, a recent letter writer offered the rather tortured example of a candidate running up a huge advantage in two large states while his or her opponent won the other 49 (including D.C.) states by very slim margins. He was quite concerned that the winner of the two states would be elected if the system were truly democratic and everyone had an equal vote.

Please allow me to suggest a more likely possible scenario. Imagine a candidate who convinced the voters in the largest states that they should no longer subsidize rural America and won the 11 largest states by a handful of votes but lost all the others in a landslide. With perhaps 30 percent to 40 percent of the popular vote, that candidate would become president. If that candidate were a Democrat, I suspect there would be some clamor from many folks currently in love with the Electoral College.

Another advantage of eliminating the current system would be the elimination of so-called “battleground states.” There would be virtually no incentive for presidential voter fraud in those winner-take-all states. Any such fraud would have no appreciable effect on any nationwide vote count.

By the way, the current popular vote is not even particularly close anymore. Clinton’s lead is approaching 2,000,000 and will probably surpass that. Given all the lies that children are told, we should not add the one that our president is democratically elected.

RANDY KNIFFIN

Middletown Springs

November snow proves the point

I can tell you that a snowstorm in November is a rare thing in Vermont. Yes, we had one back in the ‘60s when a good foot piled up on Thanksgiving Day. So what happened to global warming? We got 18 inches of snow on Nov. 20 and 21 this year. Even back in the really cold winters of the ‘50s and ‘60s, snow this early was rare. The folks that say global warming is not man-made, but is really a Earth cycle of warming then cold, are smiling today. It’s weather politics at its worst. Phil Scott may have been right about global warming just like he was right about winning the election for governor. Oh, wait a minute. Phil now believes in man-made global warming. He changed his mind on that, too.

TOM KING

Shaftsbury

Thanks, lefties, for Trump success

In response to Elizabeth Courcelle’s letter, this Deplorable says, thank you. It’s people like you who will guarantee U.S. eight years of a Trump administration. Please accept my sincere appreciation. Your hate-filled, anti-American, diarrhea rhetoric and divisive spew only make us more determined to defeat you. Again, keep up the good work.

CRISTINE SMITH

Castleton
Copyright, 2016, Rutland Herald
