
Letters
Newspaper January 18, 2017 | Rutland Herald (VT)
Section: Letters 808 Words
Article Page: 4

Grateful for eight years

Open letter to President Barack Obama:

I fell in love with you and your politics the instant I heard you speak at the Democratic Convention in 2004. “Who is that fabulous guy?!”

As soon as you announced your candidacy for president, I was on board and began working hard for your campaign — first in neighboring New Hampshire, in time for their early primary. To this day I proudly wear a surgical scar on my wrist from slipping on ice and breaking my arm after delivering 300 handwritten and addressed Obama postcards to headquarters in Lebanon, N.H., on Jan. 1, 2008.

Thank you for the dignity, decency, intelligence, honor and honesty you brought back to the United States these last eight years. You worked diligently to correct the damage done by the previous administration, and to bring the promises of our Constitution to all. The relentless obstructionism of the Republicans to block your efforts infuriated me. I wrote countless letters of objection, but to no avail.

The next four years do not look hopeful to me, considering the personality of the president-elect and his choices to serve in his administration. I have no doubt that the contrast between the two of you will be in the minds of the public every day.

As your days in office wane, I am so thankful for the eight years that you, your beautiful Michelle, Malia and Sasha gave us. I wish the four of you the very best as you return to private life.

SUSAN BEARD Rutland

Questioning legitimacy

From 2011 until just last year, Donald Trump questioned whether Barack Obama was legitimately our president, suggesting he was not born in the United States. Trump kept doing this even after the president produced a normal Hawaii birth certificate. Now Trump has attacked civil rights hero Rep. John Lewis because Lewis said he didn’t think Trump would be a legitimate president. How hypocritical of Trump!

Lewis has much better grounds than Trump ever had: All three intelligence services agree Russia hacked Democratic emails, hoping to discredit and defeat Hillary Clinton. Moreover, the FBI director violated policy by commenting on his investigation of Clinton in ways that probably discouraged people from voting for her. To top it off, Republicans supposedly trying to prevent “voter fraud” took the vote away from many older and minority citizens. Even then, Clinton got almost 3 million more people’s votes than Trump, making him the president who won the Electoral College while losing the popular vote by the biggest margin ever. And yet Trump has a Twitter tantrum because Lewis says he’s not legitimate. Of all people, Trump should not complain.

HERBERT G. OGDEN

Mount Tabor

Message from Bulgaria

Rarely a day goes by that I’m not playing backgammon on the internet against players from all over the world. Not a week goes by that players from other countries don’t ask me about Trump and the election. As myself, a Vermont independent, all are just as mind-boggled about what transpired. Frankly, I’m embarrassed as I don’t have a good answer for them.

The following is a communication from a 59-year-old woman in Bulgaria. I had asked her about her feelings. “I can’t say strong feelings ... but strong concerns about Trump. On the whole, I don’t like the Trump vision about Russia. Seems he has no idea about Putin. Putin is a proven aggressor-militarist whose imperial ambitions border illness. Putin wants disintegration of EU and to possess Eastern Europe and us again. My hope always been in the USA. I hope the behavior of the future President Trump are just play and will not help Putin to win ... By the way, Russia and communists are very happy about Trump election. I hope they will be disappointed soon.”

Listening Donald? Her hope has always been in the USA. I’m sure millions of other people around the world feel the same way.

LARRY ABELMAN Shrewsbury

Bring film to Rutland

As a student of history, with a focus on race in America, I tend to come across the work of James Baldwin often. Baldwin, a prolific writer during the second half of the 20th century, was a driving force in the fight for equality.

“I Am Not Your Negro” is a film set to premiere Feb. 3, 2017. Using archival footage and the works of Baldwin, filmmaker Raoul Peck looks to explore Baldwin’s unfinished book, “Remember This House,” and generate a narrative on race in America from the civil rights movement to the present.

I firmly believe our community can truly benefit from a film like this playing in our local theater. It will allow for us to better understand the society we live in today, as told by one of the greatest American writers, who far too often is forgotten in the history books.

I want to encourage everyone who would like to see this film brought to Rutland to email Flagship Cinemas at info@flagshipcinemas.com or films@flagshipcinemas.com and voice your support for the effort.

ANDREW CASSARINO Rutland Town
Copyright, 2017, Rutland Herald
