
12-20 Letters to the editor
Newspaper December 20, 2016 | Wyoming Tribune-Eagle (Cheyenne, WY)
Author: Staff Section: Opinion - Letters to Editor 946 Words
12-20 Letters to the editor
Christmas cookie sale needs help to continue

Susan Foley

Cheyenne

When you purchased from the selection of more than 80 different Christmas cookies on Dec. 3 at Frontier United Methodist Church, you were supporting the Boys and Girls Club of Cheyenne, which serves close to 1,100 Cheyenne youth with academic success, healthy lifestyles, and character and leadership

development.

The Christmas Cookie Sale has been fortunate to have leaders, volunteers and organizations who have generously supported the Boys and Girls Club financially and through the gifts of their time, talents and

resources.

The Christmas Cookie Sale has grown and expanded through the years. Leaders and volunteers organize, prepare the cookie tins, mix, scoop, bake, decorate, sort and freeze the more than 30,000 cookies from September to December. This process has become a Herculean task - a task that is rewarding, but now has become exhausting.

Frontier United Methodist Church does not want the cookie sale to disappear. However, they are unable to continue without assistance from a new pool of community volunteers committing some time next fall to helping the Boys and Girls Club with their mission of serving youth.

You say you cannot bake or decorate: Not a problem. We need help with mixing cookie dough, scooping dough, watching ovens, cooling and moving cookies, counting cookies, sorting and packing cookies for the freezers, washing dishes and a wide variety of other tasks.

We want the cookie sale to

continue. Do you? Please email jan.r.hertel@gmail.com and help us make this happen in 2017 for the Boys and Girls Club of Cheyenne.

Investing state funds

in equities unjustifiable

Ron Redo

Cheyenne

Constitutional Amendment A passed in November, giving the Legislature the option to invest specified state funds in equities, as is now done with state permanent funds. One way to do that is to have managers make investment decisions while a reputable custodian handles the money. Wyoming transfers its money directly to a multitude of outside investment managers.

Wyoming's state examiner was independent of the state treasurer and could examine all state agencies. Was the state examiner's authority extended to audit outside investment managers? No, the position was eliminated before the state invested in equities.

Do Wyoming statutes on investment managers require audits after they get our money? No, the statutes only require they make quarterly

reports.

Investing more state funds in equities based on great expectations appears unjustifiable.

Tough times highlight need to curb waste in Wyoming

Hollis Hackman

Sheridan

During the next two years, Wyoming schools are facing a $700 million budget shortfall. The Joint Education Interim Committee reported that budget shortfall could grow to a nearly $1.8 billion shortfall through fiscal year 2022. Gov. Matt Mead has rightly called for a comprehensive look at our current budget crises and acknowledged that we "can't cut our way out of this." Clearly, new revenue streams are needed in order to preserve our investment in our children and our future.

Wyoming recently filed suit against the U.S. Bureau of Land Management's new natural gas waste rule. The suit could cost the state millions of dollars that could be used to help fund schools and/or help fund infrastructure that could help comply with the new rule.

Business consulting firm ICF International found that more than $42 million worth of natural gas on public and tribal lands in Wyoming was wasted by energy companies flaring or venting natural gas and from leaky equipment and infrastructure. Critics have rightly acknowledged that part of the problem with capturing natural gas is a lack of infrastructure. There simply are not enough feeder lines to bring that gas to market.

By requiring reductions in flaring and venting, the BLM rule provides the state an incentive to enhance infrastructure by developing more feeder lines. Such infrastructure would also help the state maximize profits from school trust lands, something already mandated by law.

Constructing new pipelines, installing new equipment and developing new technologies will mean more jobs for Wyoming and more opportunities for entrepreneurs. The progress Wyoming has made so far on methane mitigation has already led to companies setting up nearly 20 sales, service and manufacturing sites across the state.

The benefits to cutting natural gas waste could not be more clear: more tax revenue for our schools, cleaner air, more jobs and more American energy put to good use. In these tough times, the state of Wyoming should rethink whether spending our tax dollars on a lawsuit is worthwhile, especially when the rule it is opposing would be good for Wyoming's bottom line and our schools.

Liberal zombies need to accept President Trump

Joe Elkins

Cheyenne

Does anyone remember demonstrations and riots after Obama was elected twice? Neither do I; probably because they never happened.

Conservative Americans, despite their serious trepidation about Obama's liberal mindset, and despite numerous reports of widespread voter fraud, accepted the results of the election and hoped for the best.

Well, the best turned out to be as bad or maybe even worse than the 1930s, and yes, I am old enough to remember the 1930s.

Now this year a majority of Americans have awakened and elected a man who has proposed several common-sense solutions to many of the problems caused by the current administration over the past eight years. But thousands of brain-dead liberal zombies cannot accept the results of that election. They are convinced that Mr. Trump is going to destroy America, so they are determined to themselves destroy our country to prevent him from doing it.

Well, I have news for you zombies. I firmly believe that with the grace of God, Mr. Trump will fulfill his promises, America's friends will again respect us, our enemies will again fear us, and America will once again be a great nation. So live with it. God bless America.
Copyright, 2016, Wyoming Tribune-Eagle. All rights reserved.
