Cruz Republicans support Trump 
October23,2016 |BirminghamNews (AL) 
Author: Greg Bluestein 
Section: News 
1004 Words 
Page: A14 
OpenURL 
Link 
A Mexican eatery in a neighborhood dotted with taquerias seemed an unlikely gathering spot for some of Houstons most ardent conservatives, many who consider halting the flow of illegal immigrants their top priority. 
But thats where they gathered on a recent Wednesday, chuckling at an opening prayer to keep President Barack Obama safe because he recruits more Republicans than anyone. 
Speaker after speaker warned of Democratic voter fraud, trumpeted Republican crackdowns on immigration and urged skeptical conservatives  this is ground zero for supporters of Texas U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz after all  to line up behind Donald Trump. 
Most of us are Cruz supporters, but at this point we have got to unite, said Mark Ramsey, a member of the state GOPs executive committee. I finally put a bumper sticker for Trump on my car. It was time to cross that line. 
Texas is virtually assured to give its 38 electoral votes to Trump this November. But the same purplish stew brewing in Georgia  a shrinking white majority and a fast-growing segment of minority voters  is magnified in the Lone Star State. 
Mix in demoralized Cruz supporters and other anti-establishment voters at constant war with the states Republican hierarchy and its no wonder why some Republicans are worried about the partys direction. 
Its not the way we hoped we could go, said Mary Lane, a Texas tea party activist who said she tries not to think about the presidential race and beyond. We have to go with who we have, and I hope folks will get behind Trump, but Im not really that confident. 
Democrats are realistic about their slim hopes to flip Texas in November, but they salivate at their longterm chances. If Democrats can seize Texas, it will give them a nearly insurmountable Electoral College advantage. And the partys rising leaders are trying to leverage Trump  who is trailing Clinton in some polls of younger Texas voters  to press their case. 
Young Texans dont align with Trump or the typical conservative ideals of todays GOP, said Celia Morgan, the president of the Texas Young Democrats. Our generation is tech-savvy, inclusive and understands that we need a level playing field now more than ever. Were poised to make significant changes here at home and across the country. 
***** 
Like their Georgia counterparts, Texas Democrats have had little to cheer in recent years. 
Jimmy Carter was the last Democrat to win the state four decades ago, and no Democrat has won a statewide office in Texas since 1994. Their latest hope  former state Sen. Wendy Davis  was crushed by Republican Greg Abbott in the 2014 governors race despite a wave of national attention. 
Thats why many state partisans took the tighter-than-expected polls, the surprise Clinton endorsement by the conservative Dallas Morning News and Cruzs refusal to endorse Trump at the GOP convention quietly in stride. 
Trumps poll numbers have largely stabilized since then, and Cruz, with an eye on a potential 2020 bid, announced in September that he would vote for Trump. 
Texas Republicans are rallying, if reluctantly, around the GOP nominee. 
Which is why Texas Democrats will be closely watching two other numbers in November: the turnout of Hispanic voters  and how many of them will vote in the blue column. 
Hispanics make up arguably the states most influential voting bloc  some analysts say Latinos could become the majority in two decades  and some election officials are seeing a surge in voter registration applications. 
All told, Hispanics could make up 1 in 5 voters in November. If they top that mark, and continue voting reliably for Democratic candidates, expect to hear plenty more about a swing-state Texas in the next decade. 
It would mean were starting to have a shift, said Joshua Blank, the manager of polling and research at the Texas Politics Project at the University of Texas. And if 70 percent of them vote Democratic, Republicans will have more challenges in a shorter time. 
Consider Ernest Rosales, a student studying the oil business, among a rising class of Hispanic Texans hoping to challenge the GOP hierarchy. He grew up in Venezuela before moving to Texas, and he fears similarities between Trump and Hugo Chavez, that countrys now-deceased populist leader. 
Chavez was pretty much the same as Trump when he started  look at the YouTube 
videos from 20 years ago  and I dont want to see the same thing happen here, Rosales said. Its not the right way to treat us immigrants. And Im telling you, theres going to be a big rise in immigrant voters because of that. 
***** Some immigrants are willing to overlook 
Trumps rhetoric because of his take-no-prisoners style. Sidnei Amaro, a musician who moved to the 
U.S. from Brazil in the 1990s, said he will either vote for Trump or skip the election. 
I am an immigrant, and I came the right way, Amaro said. Theres something about him. Hes a crazy guy  but hes different. And Hillary just seems corrupt. Still, theres no easy answer. 
That sentiment  theres no easy option  seems to echo among GOP activists. 
Trump and Cruz were unusually bitter rivals in the Republican primary, and Trump insulted Cruzs wife, suggested that his father was involved in the assassination of John F. Kennedy and implied the senator had a history of infidelities. 
Some of his loyalists are still seething. How am I feeling? Cruz is our hometown 
boy, and weve been supporting him forever. Were really torn, said Norma Jeter, a Houston activist who sends a daily email blast to about 1,000 Republican subscribers. 
But at the same time, I like the things that Trump says he is for, and we can only hope and pray that he means it. 
Copyright, 2016, Birmingham News. All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Greg Bluestein, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, 'Cruz Republicans support Trump', Birmingham News (online), 23 Oct 2016 A14 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1603968883266968 
