The nation in brief 
September 30, 2016 | Arkansas Democrat-Gazette: Web Edition Articles (Little Rock, AR) 
Author:CompiledbyDemocrat-Gazette stafffromwire reports 
774Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Transgender, say 333 Texas convicts 
AUSTIN, Texas --Texas prison system records show the number of inmates identifying themselves as transgender is at an all-time high amid greater awareness of gender issues and criminal justice reforms. 
Texas Department of Criminal Justice records show that 333 inmates currently identify themselves as transgender, compared with 67 inmates who identified themselves as transgender in September 2014. Overall, the Texas prison system as of Tuesday held 145,795 offenders, according to department spokesman Jason Clark. 
Transgender prisoners require special attention under new federal regulations to reduce the risk of inmate sexual assault. Administrators must also consider an inmate's gender identity when deciding on housing assignments. 
Attorney Terry Schuster, who's written extensively about lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender inmates, said it's unclear why more people who are transgender are coming out. 
However Demoya Gordon, an attorney with the LGBT rights group Lambda Legal, said greater access to hormone therapy for Texas inmates could also help explain the increase. 
Flor Bermudez, detention project director at the Transgender Law Center, said she worried that the spike in self-identifying inmates is explained by an increase in arrests of transgender people or because some transgender prisoners are fed up with current conditions and are now asking for special attention to avoid assault and violence. 
Bunker blast jars Louisiana Guard base 
MINDEN, La. --No one was reported hurt when an explosion went off at Camp Minden in northwest Louisiana on Thursday in one of 61 bunkers where artillery propellant is stored, state police said. 
Louisiana state Trooper Matt Harris said the hazardous-materials unit was surveying the area by air to see the extent of damage. 
"Once the area is deemed safe, investigators will start looking for a cause of the explosion," Harris said. 
Explosive Services International of Baton Rouge is operating a 24-hour burn operation at Camp Minden to destroy 7,800 tons of M6 artillery propellant --used for firing heavy artillery --that was left behind when 
Explo Systems Inc. went bankrupt in 2013. The company says it has destroyed more than 3,100 tons. 
Billy Poe, president of Explosive Services International, said that all company personnel have been accounted for and none was hurt. 
Camp Minden, 22 miles east of Shreveport, is a nearly 15,000-acre National Guard facility that leases space to private businesses. 
Probation only in Iowa State sex assault 
NEVADA, Iowa --A former Iowa State University student will avoid prison but be required to register as a sex offender for assaulting an unconscious female student after an on-campus party, a judge ruled Thursday. 
Patrick Whetstone, 21, pleaded guilty last week to assault with intent to commit sexual abuse. The punishment ends the criminal proceedings in a case that has roiled Iowa State, which is facing a lawsuit from the victim and a federal investigation into allegations that it mishandled the case. 
Under the terms of a plea agreement accepted by Judge James McGlynn, Whetstone will be on probation for two years and then face 10 years of parole and monitoring as a sex offender. He could be sent to jail or prison if he violates the terms of his release. 
A criminal complaint says that a then-19-year-old student from Texas became ill after drinking alcohol at a March 29, 2014, on-campus party where she met Whetstone, who was also drinking. After falling asleep or passing out on a couch, she says, she woke up to find Whetstone sexually assaulting her. 
Until his guilty plea, Whetstone had argued the sex was consensual and her accusations were false. The plea agreement spared the victim from having to testify at trial, where her credibility was expected to be questioned by the defense. 
19 dead Virginians added to voter rolls 
RICHMOND, Va. --The FBI and local police are investigating how at least 19 dead Virginians were recently re-registered to vote in this swing state. 
One case came to light after relatives of a deceased man received a note congratulating him for registering, Rockingham County Commonwealth's Attorney Marsha Garst said Thursday. All 19 were initially registered as voters in the Shenandoah Valley city of Harrisonburg, Va., which is roughly 130 miles from Washington, D.C. 
All of the forms had been submitted by a private group that was working to register voters on the campus of James Madison University, according to the Harrisonburg registrar's office. The group was not 
identified. No charges have been filed. 
Republicans in the state House of Delegates, who in recent years have supported tighter voter-ID laws, held a conference call with reporters to call attention to the investigation. 
Democrats countered that the case was not proof of voter fraud since no one had actually managed to cast a vote in the names of the dead. 
A Section on 09/30/2016 
Copyright 2016, Arkansas Democrat-Gazette. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Compiled by Democrat-Gazette stafffromwire reports, 'The nationin brief', Arkansas Democrat-Gazette: Web Edition Articles (online), 30 Sep 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15FB989E13C0D6C8 
