The nation in brief 
September 11, 2016 | Arkansas Democrat-Gazette (Little Rock, AR) 
Author: -COMPILED BY DEMOCRAT-GAZETTE STAFF FROM WIRE REPORTS 
Section: Front Section 
785 Words 
Page: 5 
OpenURL 
Link 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We're still the America of heroes who ran into harm's way, of ordinary folks who took down the hijackers, of families who turned their pain into hope." 
President Barack Obama, 
on the eve of the 15th anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, honoring the victims and the resolve of survivors 
Article, 1A 
Court halts prove-citizenship voter rule 
WASHINGTON -A federal appeals court has blocked Kansas, Georgia and Alabama from requiring residents to prove -using a national form -that they are U.S. citizens when registering to vote. The 2-1 ruling Friday is a victory for voting-rights groups that said a U.S. election official illegally changed proofof-citizenship requirements on the federal registration form at the behest of the three states. People registering to vote in other states are required only to swear that they are citizens, not show documentary proof. The three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia issued a two-page, unsigned ruling a day after hearing oral arguments. The case now returns to the district court for a full hearing on the merits. The League of Women Voters and civil-rights groups took issue with the actions of Brian Newby, executive director of the U.S. Election Assistance Commission, who changed the federal form shortly after he took the job in November. Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach had argued that the change was needed to prevent voter fraud. 
Boy left 8 hours in pickup; dad charged 
PALM HARBOR, Fla. -A father has been charged with aggravated manslaughter in the death of his 23month-old son, who was left in a pickup for eight hours, authorities in Florida said. Troy Whitaker, 41, of Palm Harbor placed his son Lawson and 5-year-old daughter in his pickup Friday morning and took the girl to school, according to a statement from the Pinellas County sheriff's office. Whitaker then drove home without taking Lawson to day care and left him unattended in the truck until about 3:30 p.m., when he drove to a nearby grocery store, authorities said. Whitaker didn't notice Lawson was still in the back seat of the truck until an hour later when he got home and began unloading groceries, detectives said. 
According to the sheriff's office, Whitaker is a Hillsborough County Fire Rescue firefighter, and he attempted to revive Lawson after calling 911. Lawson was pronounced dead at a hospital. 
Bones found in hunt for missing student 
SAN LUIS OBISPO, Calif. -Remains were found during a three-day excavation to locate a California college student who has been missing for more than 20 years, but it may take months before officials know if the remains are human, authorities said Friday. 
FBI agents and local sheriff's deputies searched three hillside locations on the campus of California Polytechnic State University at San Luis Obispo, said Tony Cipolla, a spokesman for the San Luis Obispo County sheriff's office. 
Cipolla said various items of interest turned up in all three spots, including remains that will need to be tested by forensic anthropologists at the FBI's headquarters in Quantico, Va., to determine if they're animal or human. 
The campus is the last place 19-year-old Kristin Smart was seen alive. 
A lead developed by investigators over the past two years "strongly suggested" that Smart's remains might be buried on campus, the sheriff's office announced when digging began Tuesday. 
Killings up in 25 of largest U.S. cities 
Murder rates rose last year in 25 of the nation's 100 largest cities, according to an analysis by The New York Times of data compiled from individual police departments. The findings confirm a trend in homicides that was tracked recently in a study published by the National Institute of Justice. Nationwide, nearly 6,700 homicides were reported in the 100 largest cities in 2015, about 950 more than the year before. In the Times analysis, half of the increase came from just seven cities -Baltimore, Chicago, Cleveland, Houston, Milwaukee, Nashville, Tenn. and Washington. Chicago had the most homicides 488 in 2015 -far more than the 352 in New York City, which has three times as many people. Baltimore had the largest increase -133 more than in 2014 -and the second-highest rate in 2015, after St. Louis, which had 59 homicides per 100,000 residents. While violence is up in a number of cities, it's not soaring across the nation. Nationally, homicide rates are still much lower than they were in the 1990s, even among the seven cities that drove last year's increase. 
Copyright 2016, Arkansas Democrat-Gazette. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
-COMPILED BY DEMOCRAT-GAZETTE STAFF FROM WIRE REPORTS, 'The nation in brief', Arkansas Democrat-Gazette (online), 11 Sep 2016 5 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15F56B23786BB5D8 
