If US election is rigged, whos doing the rigging? 
October 18, 2016 | Arizona Daily Star, The (Tucson, AZ) Author: Michael A. Memoli Tribune Washington Bureau 
Section: News 
314 Words Page: A07 
OpenURL 
Link 
WASHINGTON  Donald Trump on Monday continued a potentially dangerous drumbeat  
questioning the integrity of the American election system. These warnings are not new and not supported by evidence; they defy numerous studies that have found that voter fraud is minimal. 
They also invite a question: If the election is rigged, who is doing the rigging? Presidential elections are conducted on a state-by-state basis, not nationally. And in most of the states 
seen as presidential battlegrounds, the chief elections officers are Republicans  most directly accountable to their states voters. In Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, Ohio and 
Utah, the chief elections officer of the state is a Republican, elected by voters of the state. Most are 
secretary of state; Utahs lieutenant governor oversees elections there. In Florida, the secretary of state is appointed by the states Republican governor, Rick Scott  a Trump supporter. 
In North Carolina, the state board of elections has five members, appointed by the governor  currently a Republican. Its current chairman and three out of five members are Republicans. There are states with some measure of Democratic control over the process. In Minnesota and Missouri, the chief elections officer is a Democrat elected by state voters. 
Pennsylvanias secretary of state was appointed by the states Democratic governor. Virginias Democratic governor, Terry McAuliffe  a longtime Clinton ally  appointed each member of that states three-person elections board. 
The Clinton campaign denounced Trumps rhetoric. Campaigns should be hard-fought and elections hard-won, but what is fundamental about the American electoral system is that it is free, fair and open to the people. Participation in the system  and particularly voting  should be encouraged, not dismissed or undermined because a candidate is afraid 
hes going to lose, campaign manager Robby Mook said in prepared statement Saturday. 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Arizona Daily Star 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Michael A. Memoli; Tribune Washington Bureau, 'If US election is rigged, whos doing the rigging?', Arizona Daily Star, The (online), 18 Oct 2016 A07 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16019281541207F0 
