Trump seeks 20 percent tax on Mexican imports 
January 27, 2017 | Arizona Daily Star, The (Tucson, AZ) 
Author: Julie Pace AP White House Correspondent 
Section: News 
435 Words 
Page: A09 
OpenURL 
Link 
PHILADELPHIA  President Donald Trump called on fellow Republicans to help him enact great and lasting change during a party retreat Thursday but offered few details. Later his spokesman said the president will seek a 20 percent tax on Mexican imports to pay for a proposed border wall. 
The president was greeted by cheers as he took the stage in a hotel ballroom, telling senators and House members, This Congress is going to be the busiest Congress in decades  maybe ever. 
He addressed lawmakers shortly after Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto canceled a trip to Washington next week for his first meeting with the new president because of their disagreement over which of their countries would pay to build Trumps promised wall on the border between them. 
The wall is part of Trumps plan to halt illegal immigration to the U.S., and he has long insisted that Mexico will pay. Pena Nieto insists his country will not. 
On the flight back to Washington, White House spokesman Sean Spicer told reporters traveling with the president that Trump will seek to impose a 20 percent tax on Mexican imports to pay for the wall. Congressional approval would be needed for such a step. 
In Trumps remarks to lawmakers, he cast the cancellation of his engagement with Pena Nieto as a mutual decision, saying they had agreed to cancel our planned meeting. Trump had tweeted early Thursday that it would be better to cancel the upcoming meeting given Pena Nietos unwillingness to pay for the border wall. 
Trumps election put Republicans in control of both the White House and Congress for the first time in more than a decade. Yet Trumps often fluid ideology has sometimes put him at odds with his own party, making agreement on issues including a tax overhaul and entitlements no guarantee. 
Addressing fellow Republicans, the president spoke about his agenda in broad terms and then skipped a planned question-and-answer session. He gave the lawmakers no specific marching orders for tackling the repeal and replace of Obamacare, one of the most complicated issues Congress is expected to tackle this year. 
Later Thursday, Trump planned to use his executive authority to continue implementing his agenda. 
The White House is considering steps to commission a probe of widespread voter fraud, restrict the flow of refugees to the U.S., and negotiate individual trade deals with countries that signed the proposed 
Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact. Trump took steps earlier this week to withdraw the U.S. from TPP, saying the agreement puts American workers at a disadvantage. 
Copyright (c) 2017 The Arizona Daily Star 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Julie Pace; AP White House Correspondent, 'Trump seeks 20 percent tax on Mexican imports', Arizona Daily Star, The (online), 27 Jan 2017 A09 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1622D75ADCAFCBB8 
