
Pence playing clean-up man again
Newspaper October 22, 2016 | Bismarck Tribune, The (ND)
Section: A2 516 Words
Page: 12
Pence playing clean-up man again
RENO, Nevada (AP) - It's become a familiar routine for Mike Pence.

Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump says something headline-grabbing, dubious or outright false, and his mild-mannered running mate sets out to refashion the boss's argument. It's happening again this week with the campaign's most fundamental question: whether Trump would accept the legitimacy of election results that make Democrat Hillary Clinton president-elect.

Finding the right balance will prove critical for the Indiana governor in this election and beyond. His aim for the next few weeks is to rally wary Republicans, from evangelical Christians to fiscal hawks, without alienating Trump's core supporters who distrust the party establishment that Pence still calls home.

And should Trump lose, Pence's delicate, sometimes-impossible dance could leave him as one of the few high-profile Republicans with credibility across competing strands of a fractured party - a position he could occupy with an eye toward the 2020 election.

For now, the Indiana governor must translate Trump's repeated claims that the electoral system is rigged against him -unsubstantiated statements that leave Republican and Democrats alike fearful that the GOP nominee might undermine a President-elect Clinton by flouting the American tradition of graceful concessions by losing candidates.

On NBC's "Meet the Press" on Sunday, Pence explained that Trump was talking about media bias against Trump, not massive voting fraud. "We absolutely will accept the result of the election," he said.

Trump undercut Pence's first point almost immediately, tweeting that there was rigging at polling places. The second point he rejected in a more explosive manner at Wednesday's debate.

Moderator Chris Wallace cited Pence's comments among others in asking Trump if he'd accept the election results. Trump refused. "I will keep you in suspense," he said.

By the next day, Pence had ditched the unequivocal language he had used on Sunday. Speaking in Nevada, he tried to brush off the outrage over Trump's comments as a misunderstanding driven by a rat-pack media fixated on "one sentence."

He also noted that Trump earlier in the day had said he would accept a clear election result, adding "we also reserve the right to contest or file a legal challenge in the case of questionable results."

That's been Pence's motif: push back at a narrative, mollify core supporters and give Trump and Pence aides just enough to cover to deny any daylight between the two.

But even when Trump and Pence are in general agreement, there are differences in scale and approach.

Pence will say: "Don't kid yourself, voter fraud is real" and "takes place in pockets and polling places around the country." It's a standard conservative applause line.

But he hasn't gone as far as Trump, who has bemoaned "large-scale voter fraud" - a disproven assertion - and urged his nearly all-white audiences to monitor voting sites in "other communities" so the election isn't "stolen." It's a call-to-action some minorities interpret as voter intimidation.

Pence tells supporters to "respectfully participate" in safeguarding a fair election. In Colorado this week, he urged Trump supporters to volunteer as official poll watchers, a long-standing component of U.S. elections sustained by both major parties. It was a noticeable, if subtle departure from Trump's tacit invitation for freelance, vigilante poll monitoring.
Copyright, 2016, The Bismarck Tribune
