
BRIEFS
Newspaper October 18, 2016 | Bismarck Tribune, The (ND)
Section: A 420 Words
Page: 2
BRIEFS
Amid talk of 'rigged' election, experts say voting fraud is rare

ATLANTA (AP) - Donald Trump has repeatedly warned of a "rigged" election, saying large-scale voter fraud is happening in the U.S. and suggesting it will affect the outcome of this year's presidential race. There is no evidence that such widespread fraud exists.

Trump's comments have alarmed voting rights experts and civil rights groups, who say they threaten to undermine faith in the nation's elections. Meanwhile, House Speaker Paul Ryan and other Republicans are expressing confidence in the voting systems, while state election officials are saying they are committed to conducting fair and impartial elections.

It's worth noting, too, that 29 of the nation's secretaries of state are Republican.

Russia sets brief cease-fire for Aleppo as strikes kill 36

BEIRUT (AP) - Russian and Syrian forces will halt hostilities for eight hours in the eastern districts of Aleppo, Russia's military announced on Monday, a day on which opposition activists said their airstrikes killed at least 36 people, including several children, in and around the divided city.

The two militaries will observe a "humanitarian pause" between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. on Oct. 20 to allow civilians and militants safe passage out of the city, Lt. Gen. Sergei Rudskoi of Russia's general staff said in Moscow. Militants, the wounded and sick would be allowed to evacuate to the neighboring rebel-held province of Idlib.

U.N. humanitarian officials have pleaded with combatants to observe weekly 48-hour cease-fires to allow humanitarian relief into the city's besieged eastern districts, but Russian and Syrian forces have only escalated their aerial and ground assault on the rebel-held areas in recent weeks.

State battles are hot; election isn't just about White House

JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. (AP) - Years of losses have left Democrats at historic lows in state legislatures. But now they're seeking to wrest control of as many as a dozen chambers from Republicans, a key step in gaining more influence in redistricting.

The battle for statehouse control is playing out in more than half the states with tens of millions of dollars of planned political spending before the Nov. 8 general election. Democrats are hoping the turmoil surrounding Donald Trump's presidential campaign can boost their fortunes in down-ballot races, although Hillary Clinton remains unpopular in many Republican-leaning regions.

Money spent on TV advertising for state House and Senate races is up more than 50 percent compared with the same point in 2014, according to an analysis conducted for The Associated Press by the Center for Public Integrity of data from the media-tracking firm Kantar Media/CMAG.
Copyright, 2016, The Bismarck Tribune
