
Supporters question election legitimacy
Newspaper October 28, 2016 | Bismarck Tribune, The (ND)
Section: A 560 Words
Page: 2
Supporters question election legitimacy
CHARLOTTE, N.C. - Donald Trump's dubious claims the presidential election is "rigged" have taken root among most of his supporters, who say they will have serious doubts about the legitimacy of the election's outcome if Hillary Clinton wins, according to a new Associated Press-GfK poll.

Just 35 percent of Trump's supporters say they will most likely accept the results of the election as legitimate if Clinton wins, while 64 percent say they're more likely to have serious doubts about the accuracy of the vote count if the Republican nominee is not the victor.

By contrast, 69 percent of Clinton's supporters say they'll accept the outcome if Trump wins. Only 30 percent of the Democratic nominee's backers express a reluctance to accept the results if the former secretary of state loses on Election Day.

Overall, 77 percent of likely voters say they'll accept the legitimacy of the results if Trump wins, while 70 percent say the same of a Clinton win.

In the final weeks of the campaign, Trump has made doubts about the integrity of the U.S. election system a cornerstone of his closing argument. Asked directly at the final presidential debate if he would accept the election results, Trump refused, saying: "I will keep you in suspense."

The poll found that 44 percent of all likely voters say Trump's stance makes them less likely to support him, but the vast majority of his supporters say it doesn't make a difference.

Trump has also repeated inaccurate claims that vote fraud is a widespread problem, and the poll finds that most of Trump's supporters share that concern. Fifty-six percent think there's a great deal of voter fraud, 36 percent believe there is some, and 6 percent say there's hardly any.

Most Clinton supporters, 64 percent, think there's hardly any voter fraud. Overall, just 27 percent of likely voters think there's a great deal of fraud. A third of voters overall believe there is at least some, while 38 percent say there is hardly any.

While there have been isolated cases of voter fraud in the U.S., there is no evidence of it being a widespread problem. In one study, a Loyola Law School professor found 31 instances involving allegations of voter impersonation out of 1 billion votes cast in U.S. elections between 2000 and 2014.

Beyond allegations of fraud, 40 percent of Trump supporters say they have little to no confidence that votes in the election will be counted accurately. Another 34 percent say they have only a moderate amount of confidence, and just 24 percent say they have a great deal or quite a bit of confidence in the vote count.

Among Clinton supporters, 79 percent say they have a great deal or quite a bit of confidence in the vote count's accuracy.

Trump's supporters are also more likely than others to say they are concerned about hackers interfering with the election. Forty-six percent of them are extremely or very concerned and 37 percent somewhat concerned. Overall, 32 percent of voters say they're extremely to very concerned and 39 percent somewhat concerned. Among Clinton supporters, 60 percent are at least somewhat concerned.

Although the poll shows many Trump supporters would have doubts about a Clinton win, the poll shows relatively little acute concern that claims of inaccuracy and voter fraud could prevent Americans overall from accepting the results. Just 30 percent of likely voters are extremely or very concerned about that, while another 40 percent are somewhat concerned.
Copyright, 2016, The Bismarck Tribune
