
US-Mexico relations sour over wall Priebus: 20% tax on - Mexican imports part of 'a buffet of options' to fund completion $%
Newspaper January 27, 2017 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Author: Julie Pace and Mark Stevenson The Associated Press Section: News 1207 Words
Page: P1A
US-Mexico relations sour over wall Priebus: 20% tax on - Mexican imports part of 'a buffet of options' to fund completion $%
WASHINGTON - President Donald Trump's determination to wall off America's border with Mexico triggered a diplomatic clash and fresh fight over trade Thursday as the White House proposed a 20 percent tax on imports from the key U.S. ally and Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto abruptly scrapped next week's trip to Washington.

The swift fallout signaled a remarkable souring of relations between Washington and one of its most important international partners just days into the new administration. The U.S. and Mexico conduct about $1.6 billion a day in cross-border trade, and cooperate on everything from migration to anti-drug enforcement to major environmental issues.

At the heart of the dispute is Trump's insistence that Mexico will pay for construction of the massive wall he has promised along the Southern U.S. border. Trump on Wednesday formally ordered construction of the wall.

The plan was a centerpiece of Trump's election campaign, although he never specified how Mexico would fund the project or how he would compel payments if Pena Nieto's government refused.

The two leaders had been scheduled to discuss the matter at the White House next week, but Pena Nieto took to Twitter Thursday to say he had informed the White House he would not be coming. Trump had tweeted early Thursday that "it would be better to cancel the upcoming meeting, given Pena Nieto's unwillingness to pay for the wall.

In a speech in Philadelphia later Thursday, Trump said the cancellation was a mutual decision. He said that "unless Mexico is going to treat the United States fairly, with respect, such a meeting would be fruitless, and I want to go a different route. We have no choice.

On the flight back to Washington, Trump's spokesman told reporters the president was considering the 20 percent import tax to foot the bill, the most specific proposal Trump has floated for how to cover a project estimated to cost between $12 billion and $15 billion.

"By doing that, we can do $10 billion a year and easily pay for the wall, just through that mechanism alone, Spicer said. "This is something that we've been in close contact with both houses [of Congress] in moving forward and creating a plan.

Spicer said Trump was looking at taxing imports on all countries the United States has trade deficits with, but he added, "Right now we are focused on Mexico.

The announcement sparked confusion across Washington, and the White House tried to backtrack. During a hastily arranged briefing in the West Wing, chief of staff Reince Priebus said a 20 percent import tax is one idea in "a buffet of options to pay for the border wall.

A 20 percent tariff would represent a huge tax increase on imports to the United States, raising the likelihood of costs being passed on to consumers. Half of all nonagricultural goods enter the United States duty free, according to the office of the U.S. Trade Representative. The other half face import tariffs averaging 2 percent.

Mexico is one of America's biggest trade partners, and the United States is the No. 1 buyer from that country, accounting for about 80 percent of Mexican exports. A complete rupture in ties could be damaging to the U.S. economy and disastrous for Mexico's. And major harm to Mexico's economy also could spur more people to risk deportation, jail or even death to cross the border to the United States - undercutting Trump's major goal of stopping illegal immigration.

To some congressional Republicans, Spicer's comments appeared to be a welcome embrace of a border adjustment tax, a core element of House Speaker Paul Ryan's tax reform proposal. As part of that proposal, a 20 percent corporate tax rate would apply to goods and services consumed in the United States but not applied to exports from America.

Earlier this month, Trump called that concept confusing, and during the White House's clean-up efforts Thursday, Spicer wouldn't say if Trump agreed with the border adjustment tax being considered by House Republicans.

The new president has previously raised the prospect of slapping tariffs on imports, but had not suggested it as a way to pay for the border wall.

Additionally, there is disagreement within his administration over the effectiveness of tariffs in general. Wilbur Ross, Trump's nominee for commerce secretary, dismissed tariffs for trade negotiations during his confirmation hearing, saying the 1930 Tariff Act "didn't work very well then and it very likely wouldn't work now.

Pena Nieto has faced intense pressure at home over his response to Trump's aggressive stance toward his country. Until this week, Mexico had tried its traditional approach of quiet, cautious diplomacy combined with back-room discussions, sending Cabinet officials for talks with the Trump administration.

But that changed when Trump decided to announce completion of the border wall on Wednesday - the same day that two senior Mexican Cabinet ministers arrived in Washington for preliminary talks ahead of what was to be a presidential tete-a-tete. Many Mexicans were affronted by the timing, and Pena Nieto faced a firestorm of criticism at home.

The diplomatic row recalls the rocky days of U.S.-Mexico relations in the 1980s, before the North American Free Trade Agreement, a pact that Trump has vigorously criticized.

"There is a change in the understanding that had been in operation over the last 22 years, when Mexico was considered a strategic ally, said Isidro Morales, a political scientist at the Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Education. "Trump has unilaterally broken with this way of doing things.

Earlier Thursday, Trump called on fellow Republicans to help him enact "great and lasting change during a party retreat in Philadelphia.

The president was greeted by cheers as he took the stage in a hotel ballroom, telling senators and House members, "This Congress is going to be the busiest Congress in decades - maybe ever.

Trump's election put Republicans in control of the White House and Congress for the first time in more than a decade. Yet Trump's often fluid ideology has sometimes put him at odds with his own party, making agreement on issues including a tax overhaul and entitlements no guarantee.

Addressing fellow Republicans, the president spoke about his agenda in broad terms and then skipped a planned question-and-answer session. He gave the lawmakers no specific marching orders for tackling the repeal and replacement of the Affordable Care Act, one of the most complicated issues Congress is expected to tackle this year.

Later Thursday, Trump planned to use his executive authority to continue implementing his agenda.

The White House is considering steps to commission a probe of widespread voter fraud, restrict the flow of refugees to the United States and negotiate individual trade deals with countries that signed the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact. Trump took steps earlier this week to withdraw the United States from the TPP, saying the agreement puts American workers at a disadvantage.

Trump's brief trip to Philadelphia marked his first flight on Air Force One, the familiar blue and white government plane that has long ferried presidents around the country and the world. Spicer described Trump - who traveled throughout the campaign and the transition on his own private jet - as being "in awe of the presidential aircraft.

Trump saluted as he walked off his Marine One helicopter and chatted with an Air Force officer who escorted him to the steps of the plane. He climbed the steps slowly but did not turn around and wave, as presidents often do.
Copyright, 2017, Charleston Newspapers
