
OTHER VIEWS
Newspaper September 25, 2016 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Section: Editorial 1959 Words
Page: P12A
OTHER VIEWS
Washington Post: Obama bucks America's history of xenophobia

The Obama administration's goal of accepting 110,000 refugees in the fiscal year starting Oct. 1 - a nearly 30 percent increase from the current level and a nearly 60 percent jump from the three previous years - is an amply justified response to the world's worst refugee crisis since World War II, and it prompted predictable snarls from congressional Republicans. Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama said the president's new target ignores "the common sense concerns of the American people, and Rep. Bob Goodlatte of Virginia, the House Judiciary Committee chairman, said the influx of refugees, including from Syria, disregards "how it will impact local communities.

The Sessions-Goodlatte impulse fits a xenophobic historical pattern of U.S. antipathy toward foreigners - especially those fleeing war and persecution - that clashes with the cherished image of an open-hearted nation greeting the poor, huddled masses.

One can well imagine with what warmth, or lack of it, Sessions and Goodlatte might have welcomed previous waves of unwashed and desperate refugees from, say, Hungary in 1958; Indochina in 1979; Cuba in 1980; or, for that matter, the European Jews who urgently sought refuge here in the late 1930s. Today, of course, they might celebrate those immigrants and their successful assimilation, yet when those refugees were knocking on this nation's door, large majorities of Americans opposed their admission.

Survey data gathered last year by the Pew Research Center provide a picture of Americans' past hostility. In 1958, soon after the Soviet Union squashed a liberation movement in Hungary, 55 percent of Americans disapproved of a plan to admit 65,000 Hungarian refugees. In 1979, 62 percent of Americans disliked an initiative to absorb 14,000 refugees per month, double the existing number, from Indochina following the end of America's military engagement there. And in 1980, more than 70 percent of Americans opposed the Mariel boatlift, when the Castro dictatorship in Havana allowed tens of thousands of Cubans to set off for Florida.

In each case, refugees resettled in the United States in large numbers, defying predictions that their admission would trigger social upheaval and economic disaster, much as previous immigrants from Ireland, Italy and Eastern Europe overcame the antagonism of those who had preceded them to U.S. shores.

The long history of fear and hatred directed toward refugees in the abstract - tempered by the warm-hearted embrace with which many have been greeted in real life by their new American neighbors, churches and communities - is often swept under the historical rug because it is so blatantly disgraceful. Politicians like Sessions and Goodlatte would no doubt decry America's failure to rescue more Jews from Europe immediately before Hitler unleashed the Holocaust. Yet in 1938, on the eve of World War II, two-thirds of Americans opposed the admission of refugees, including children, from Germany and Austria.

The current hostility of many Americans toward admitting Syrian Muslim refugees is based on ostensible concerns about terrorists mingling among the migrants. Yet it fits the pattern of historical nativism, justified by different arguments at different times. To his credit, Obama grasps the prejudice at the root of the opposition, and has the courage to disregard it.

Los Angeles Times: Wells Fargo fee scheme exposure

U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) has been getting a lot of notice for her tough questioning of Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf, and that's as it should be. The mega-bank recently settled a lawsuit over its outrageous practice of opening fake accounts for real customers without their permission - and then charging the customers fees for the "service." At a Senate hearing Tuesday, Warren branded Stumpf "gutless" for blaming the mess on employees, called on him to resign and said he should be criminally investigated.

Federal prosecutors are reportedly looking into whether Stumpf and other senior bank officials engaged in fraud by imposing impossibly steep sales quotas that they knew - or should have known - would pressure bank workers to rack up fees by any means necessary. In the meantime, though, let's remember what landed Stumpf in the Senate hot seat and perhaps in prosecutorial sights in the first place.

It began with investigative stories by now-retired Times reporter E. Scott Reckard beginning in 2013.

It continued with a lawsuit against Wells Fargo, filed last year by Los Angeles City Atty. Mike Feuer.

Feuer? Why him rather than some state attorney general?

Well, why not? Los Angeles banking customers were among the perhaps 2 million people being charged for services they never sought, and Reckard's reporting began with a story on the firing of bank employees in the L.A. region for opening fake accounts. Feuer was elected to represent the municipal entity that is the city of Los Angeles, but also to look out for the interests of its people - and despite Wells Fargo's court pleadings to the contrary, he had the power under state unfair business practice laws to act. He acted.

Los Angeles city attorneys are sometimes belittled for operating outside their local job descriptions in search of broader glory, but they could just as easily be chided for thinking too narrowly. What's the point of voters in the nation's second-largest city electing a lawyer if that person can't or won't look out for their interests? L.A.'s city attorney represents more people than the attorneys general of nearly half the states and has the power to protect consumers. In the Wells Fargo case, Feuer wielded that power well.

New York Times: Voter fraud in the United States

How does a lie come to be widely taken as the truth?

The answer is disturbingly simple: Repeat it over and over again. When faced with facts that contradict the lie, repeat it louder.

This, in a nutshell, is the story of claims of voting fraud in America - and particularly of voter impersonation fraud, the only kind that voter ID laws can possibly prevent.

Last week, a Washington Post-ABC News poll found that nearly half of registered American voters believe that voter fraud occurs "somewhat or "very often. That astonishing number includes two-thirds of people who say they're voting for Donald Trump and a little more than one-quarter of Hillary Clinton supporters. Another 26 percent of American voters said that fraud "rarely occurs, but even that characterization is off the mark. Just 1 percent of respondents gave the answer that comes closest to reflecting reality: "Never.

As study after study has shown, there is virtually no voter fraud anywhere in the country. The most comprehensive investigation to date found that out of one billion votes cast in all American elections between 2000 and 2014, there were 31 possible cases of impersonation fraud. Other violations - like absentee ballot fraud, multiple voting and registration fraud - are also exceedingly rare. So why do so many people continue to believe this falsehood?

Credit for this mass deception goes to Republican lawmakers, who have for years pushed a fake story about voter fraud, and thus the necessity of voter ID laws, in an effort to reduce voting among specific groups of Democratic-leaning voters. Those groups - mainly minorities, the poor and students - are less likely to have the required forms of identification.

Behind closed doors, some Republicans freely admit that stoking false fears of electoral fraud is part of their political strategy. In a recently disclosed email from 2011, a Republican lobbyist in Wisconsin wrote to colleagues about a very close election for a seat on the State Supreme Court. "Do we need to start messaging widespread reports of election fraud' so we are positively set up for the recount regardless of the final number? he wrote. "I obviously think we should.

Sometimes they acknowledge it publicly. In 2012, a former Florida Republican Party chairman, Jim Greer, told The Palm Beach Post that voter ID laws and cutbacks in early voting are "done for one reason and one reason only - to suppress Democratic turnout. Consultants, Mr. Greer said, "never came in to see me and tell me we had a fraud issue. It's all a marketing ploy.

The ploy works. During the 2012 election, voter ID laws in Kansas and Tennessee reduced turnout by about 2 percent, or about 122,000 votes, according to a 2014 analysis by the Government Accountability Office. Turnout fell the most among young people, African-Americans and newly registered voters. Another study analyzing elections from 2006 through 2014 found that voting by eligible minority citizens decreased significantly in states with voter ID laws and "that the racial turnout gap doubles or triples in states with those laws.

There are plenty of shortcomings in the American voting system, but most are a result of outdated machines, insufficient resources or human error - not intentional fraud. All of these are made only worse by shutting down polling places or eliminating early voting hours, measures frequently supported by Republican legislators.

Those efforts are especially galling in a nation where, on a good day, only 60 percent of eligible voters show up to the polls. The truth is that those who created the specter of voter fraud don't care about the integrity of the voting system; they want to undermine the rights of legitimate voters because that helps them win elections.

The scary thing is how many Americans have bought into this charade. It shouldn't be surprising that the Republican Party's standard-bearer, Donald Trump, has elevated the lie about voting fraud and "rigged elections to a centerpiece of his campaign.

Boston Herald on recent bombing explosions in New York City and New Jersey:

The weapons of choice in this weekend's New York City bombing tell us a lot about the motivation of the bomber - and no one in Boston needs to hear the president of the United States or FBI officials dance around that question.

The bomb that went off in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan, injuring 29, was filled with shrapnel, small bearings or metal BBs. It was designed to do grave damage - much like the ones that took three lives and changed the lives of some 260 people here on Marathon Day in 2013. A second pressure-cooker bomb was found before it could be detonated. Five more unexploded devices were found in an Elizabeth, New Jersey, train station.

This was terrorism pure and simple - even if it did take New York's perfectly pathetic mayor another 24 hours to get those words out.

Ahmad Khan Rahami, 28, shot and captured by New Jersey police yesterday, was identified by investigators as the "main guy behind the explosion in New York City and an earlier pipe bomb explosion in New Jersey that targeted a charity road race, benefiting Marines and their families. Rahami was a naturalized citizen, born in Afghanistan, and harboring what might have been a rather large chip on his shoulder. His parents had filed suit several years ago alleging their fast-food chicken restaurant was targeted by police, not because neighbors had complained it was a late-night nuisance but - because they are Muslim.

It doesn't take much these days for those who harbor their own set of grievances to turn them into action. Meanwhile radical jihadis provide a wealth of information via the internet on how to make bombs, and at the same time they stoke hatreds which have already taken root.

Public officials, even President Obama, were a little faster to label a stabbing rampage at a Minnesota mall a "potential act of terrorism. Maybe it was because the now dead suspect was yelling the name of Allah as he did the deed and asking potential victims if they were Muslim.

Other than that, yesterday the president had one of his better No Drama Obama performances, admonishing the press to "refrain from getting out ahead of the investigation even as Rahami was under arrest in New Jersey.

New York and New Jersey were saved from a far worse fate by alert citizens and great police work - and yes, perhaps by the grace of a higher power. But all that happened not because of but in spite of political leaders who don't lead and can't inspire.
Copyright, 2016, Charleston Newspapers
