
VOTER INTIMIDATION AT THE POLLS ACLU, US attorney s - office to respond to complaints
Newspaper October 31, 2016 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Author: Erin Beck Staff writer Section: News 642 Words
Page: P8A
VOTER INTIMIDATION AT THE POLLS ACLU, US attorney s - office to respond to complaints
People who experience problems trying to vote or witness voter intimidation can contact the American Civil Liberties Union of West Virginia this Election Day. Those who witness a crime, which may include voter intimidation, should also contact the U.S. attorney's office, the FBI or the Justice Department.

In hopes of preventing voter disenfranchisement, the state chapter of the ACLU will staff a hotline on Election Day.

Joseph Cohen, executive director, said that he and the organization's policy director, Eli Baumwell, will be available to take calls from anyone concerned about access to the ballot, whether that's being told they aren't registered, a voting machine not working, needing an emergency absentee ballot, voter intimidation, or voter fraud, which he noted is "exceedingly rare.

"The ACLU needs to make sure people have access to democracy, he said.

Voters can call 304-345-9262 during the hours the polls are open, from 6:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. on Election Day, Nov. 8.

Cohen said the hotline is not in response to fears stoked by the presidential campaign of Donald Trump, who has repeatedly called the election "rigged, suggested that he may not accept the election results, and encouraged supporters to take it upon themselves to be "election observers and make sure no one is engaging in voter fraud. But Cohen said they do have concerns about some of the rhetoric.

"We do think it's inappropriate for untrained people to be going to the polls and exerting influence or attempting to police the polls ... because that could have sort of an intimidating feel, he said. "People should not be surveilling the polling places.

People who believe their voting rights have been violated can also contact the West Virginia Secretary of State's office at 304-558-6000 or 866-SOS-VOTE (866-767-8683). The office has posted a list of voter rights on their website at www.sos.wv.gov/elections/current/Pages/Voter_Rights.aspx.

Cohen said in his volunteer work during elections in the past, he noticed the vast majority of Election Day problems voters reported were not criminal in nature.

If any crimes are committed, though, the U.S. attorney's office will be prepared to respond, according to a news release.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Gabrielle Wohl will serve as the district election officer for the Southern District of West Virginia. The Justice Department has a long-standing Election Day program.

Wohl will be on duty while polls are open and can be reached at 304-345-2200.

She is charged with overseeing handling of election fraud complaints and voting rights abuses in consultation with Justice Department headquarters in Washington, D.C. Federal law prohibits intimidating or bribing voters, buying and selling votes, impersonating voters, altering vote tallies, stuffing ballot boxes and marking ballots for voters against their wishes or without their input.

The release states that "actions of persons designated to interrupt or intimidate voters at polling places by questioning or challenging them, or by photographing or videotaping them, under the pretext that these are actions to uncover illegal voting may violate federal voting rights law. Clint Carte, spokesman for the office, said they have no special concern about this Election Day and that they are always vigilant.

The FBI will also have agents available. The number of the Charleston field office is 304-346-2300.

Complaints about possible violations of the federal voting rights laws can be made directly to the Justice Department Civil Rights Division's Voting Section in Washington, D.C. by phone at 1-800-253-3931, by fax at 202-307-3961, by email to voting.section@usdoj.gov or by complaint form at www.justice.gov/crt/complaint/votintake/index.php.

In a statement, U.S. Attorney Carol Casto urged voters who believe they witness criminal behavior to contact her office, the FBI or the Civil Rights Division.

"We rely on you to be our eyes and ears in the community and at the polling places and to report any irregularities you observe in the voting process, she said.

Reach Erin Beck at

erin.beck@wvgazettemail.com,

304-348-5163,

Facebook.com/erinbeckwv,

or follow @erinbeckwv

on Twitter.
Copyright, 2016, Charleston Newspapers
