Immigration - Trump moves to build wall, curb 'sanctuary cities'
Newspaper January 26, 2017 | Charlotte Observer, The (NC)
Author: Franco Ordonez and Anita Kumar Section: News 783 Words
Page: 1A
Immigration - Trump moves to build wall, curb 'sanctuary cities'
WASHINGTON President Donald Trump took a significant step toward carrying out his signature - and most controversial - campaign promise Wednesday, ordering the construction of a wall along the Southwest border.

In a pair of executive orders, Trump also ordered an increase in enforcement of U.S. immigration laws, a clampdown on so-called sanctuary cities, a boost in the number of Border Patrol officers, and expansion of detention centers for those caught trying to sneak across the border.

The president signed the orders during a visit to the Department of Homeland Security on Wednesday where he promised the measures would save thousands of lives, millions of jobs and billions of dollars. He said it would improve security for both Mexico and the United States.

"We're in the middle of a crisis on our southern border," he said. "The unprecedented surge of illegal migrants from Central America is harming both Mexico and the United States. And I believe the steps we will take starting right now will improve the safety in both of our countries. It's going to be very very good for Mexico. A nation without borders is not a nation. Beginning today, the United States of America gets back control back of its borders."

Later in the week, Trump is expected to sign orders restricting the flow of refugees into the United States, The Associated Press reported. Trump's current proposal includes at least a four-month halt on all refugee admissions, as well as a temporary ban on people coming from some Muslim-majority countries, according to a source from a public policy organization that monitors refugee issues. The person was briefed on the details of that proposed action by a government official and outlined the plan to The Associated Press.

A surge of Central Americans fleeing violence and poverty has overwhelmed the U.S. immigration system. U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents apprehended 408,870 people along the Southwest border last year. Among them were 117,300 unaccompanied children and families from El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala. Just 15,402 Mexican children and families attempted the illegal crossing.

The immigration directives appear to be the most ambitious of a series of executive orders that the real estate mogul has signed since taking office Friday. The first directive, in addition to ordering funds for the planning, designing and construction of the wall, also authorized the hiring of 5,000 more U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers and tripling the number of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents to intercept, track down and deport immigrants in the United States illegally.

The second, which Kansas secretary of state and immigration hardliner Kris Kobach helped write, directs the Department of Homeland Security and the attorney general to withhold federal grants, except as deemed necessary for law enforcement purposes, from states and cities where local officials limit their cooperation with federal authorities on immigrants in detention. It also creates an office within U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to provide services to victims of crimes committed by immigrants in the country illegally.

Immigrant rights groups said they're lining up a list of lawyers willing to work for free to fight the expected removal orders and help refugees unite with families still overseas.

Lynn Tramonte, deputy director of America's Voice Education Fund, charged Trump with "taking a wrecking ball to the Statue of Liberty."

Voter fraud investigation?: President Donald Trump wants to potentially spend tens of millions of taxpayer dollars to examine a problem that's been proven not to exist: systemic voter fraud.

Trump, in tweets Wednesday, announced that he'll seek a "major investigation" into voter fraud, echoing his unsubstantiated claim that some 3 million to 5 million people voted illegally in November's election, helping to propel Democrat Hillary Clinton to a big popular-vote advantage.

Apparently, even Trump's lawyers haven't believed voter fraud was a problem in the 2016 election. His lawyers objected in a court filing to Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein's Michigan recount petition last year, Business Insider reported Wednesday.

"On what basis does Stein seek to disenfranchise Michigan citizens?" the filing said.

Chicago: Twice this month, President Donald Trump has asserted that Chicago may need federal help to combat a surge in violence. And twice this month, Trump invoked the possibility without offering any specifics.

Trump's tweet on Tuesday night that he would "send in the Feds!" if the city couldn't fight the bloodshed - apparently sent after he saw it mentioned on Fox News - was met with bafflement by the city's top police officer, The Washington Post reported.

"We always have been here," said David Coulson, a spokesman for the Chicago field division of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. "We work very closely with the Chicago Police Department."
Copyright (c) 2017 The Charlotte Observer

