Rights groups:New voter laws likely helped Trump 
November 13, 2016 | Hartford Courant, The (CT) 
Author: Tony Pugh 
Section: Main 
601 Words 
Page: 3A 
OpenURL 
Link 
WASHINGTON -Civil rights groups say a tangle of Republican-backed "voter suppression" laws enacted since 2010 probably helped tip the scale for Republican nominee Donald Trump in some closely contested states on election night. 
"When we look back, we will find that voter suppression figured prominently in the story surrounding the 2016 presidential election," said Kristen Clarke, the president and executive director of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. 
Fourteen states had restrictive new voting laws on the books for the first time in a presidential election this year, according to the Brennan Center for Justice at the NYU School of Law: Alabama, Arizona, Indiana, Kansas, Mississippi, Nebraska, New Hampshire, Ohio, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and Wisconsin. 
The laws included a mix of photo ID requirements for voters, cuts to early voting opportunities and curbs on voter registration activity. 
The laws, which were presumably enacted as a safeguard against voter fraud, began to spread nationally after the 2010 midterm elections, when large numbers of Republicans were swept into state offices. 
Since then, 10 states have imposed stricter voter ID laws, seven have made registration more difficult, six have cut early voting opportunities and three have made it harder to restore voting rights to people with criminal convictions, according to the Brennan Center. 
The center charges that race and partisanship are behind many of the laws, which have been found to disproportionately affect voters who traditionally vote Democratic: minorities, the poor, college students and other young voters. 
In addition to systemic barriers, voters faced individual obstacles on Election Day, Clarke said during a news briefing last week. The problems included long lines at polls, voters' names not appearing on registration lists, a lack of polling place assistance for foreign-language speakers and "poll workers who requested strict photo ID in states where no such ID was required." 
Groups that monitored Tuesday's election "have documented beyond any doubt that voter suppression and a conscious effort to shave off 1 or 2 percent of the vote in key states, in all likelihood, influenced the outcome of this election," said Wade Henderson, the president of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. 
In addition, activists complained of large-scale registration purges of inactive voters and reductions in the number of places where people could cast ballots. 
A report by the leadership conference found that voting locations were reduced in 165 of 381 counties that were previously covered by Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. The result: There were 868 fewer sites in which to cast a ballot in those jurisdictions with histories of discriminatory voting practices. 
Conservatives concerned about voter fraud say the changes were not targeted at minorities. 
Robert Knight, a senior fellow at the conservative American Civil Rights Union, told McClatchy in October: "We frankly think that's an absurd charge, that somehow having clean rolls and requiring things like voter ID and even proof of U.S. citizenship somehow suppress the vote of minorities." 
Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act required the U.S. Department of Justice to preapprove changes to voting rules in nine states with long histories of voting discrimination. 
But after nearly 50 years, the U.S. Supreme Court voided the "preclearance" requirement in June 2013, ruling in Shelby County v. Holder that an invalid formula had been used to determine which jurisdictions should be subject to the provision. 
Civil rights groups said the ruling opened the door for state and local governments to enact a flurry of controversial voting restrictions. 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Hartford Courant Co. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Tony Pugh, McClatchy Newspapers, 'Rights groups: New voter laws likely helped Trump', Hartford Courant, The (online), 13 Nov 2016 3A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160A1017E27D29A0 
