N.C. governor requests recount -He trails Dem challenger by about 8,000 votes 
November 24, 2016 | Hartford Courant, The (CT) Section: Main 
723 Words 
Page: 9A 
OpenURL 
Link 
RALEIGH, N.C. -North Carolina's incumbent Republican governor, Pat McCrory, has formally requested a recount of votes in his close race with Democrat Roy Cooper. 
Two weeks after Election Day and counts of provisional and absentee ballots, McCrory's vote total continues to lag, but appears to be within the 10,000 vote range that allows for a recount. 
In his letter to the State Board of Elections, McCrory wrote: "With serious concerns about potential voter fraud emerging across the state, it is becoming apparent that a thorough recount is one way the people of North Carolina can have confidence in the results, process and system." 
Cooper, the state attorney general claimed victory on election night with a 4,000-vote lead out of 4.2 million cast. As provisional and absentee ballots are being counted, Cooper's lead has grown to about 8,000 votes. 
So confident is Cooper of his lead, he's already preparing to take the reins. He released a video Saturday declaring "we have won this race." And his campaign announced Monday that it's putting in place a transition team. 
McCrory, at risk of becoming the first North Carolina governor to lose re-election, isn't going without a fight. On election night, he cast suspicion on a Democratic county's hand tabulation of 90,000 votes that surged Cooper ahead of McCrory in the final hours. (His campaign has yet to provide any evidence of voter fraud.) 
In the days since, the governor's campaign has also launched dozens of challenges to vote results across the state. But even with those challenges, McCrory's campaign has not presented any evidence of the kind of wide-scale voter fraud that would swing the election by thousands of votes back to him. 
So far, most of the challenges have yet to gain a foothold. At least eight (mostly Republican-controlled) boards of elections have rejected all or most of the challenges based on lack of evidence. 
In one county, an allegedly dead person who voted was actually alive. In another county, two alleged convicted felons were not felons at all. In another county, an elections protest was thrown out after the GOP lawyer who filed it showed up for the hearing after it ended. 
McCrory's contest-every-vote strategy has come under some criticism from election officials. 
"You can't just say, 'I think you're a convicted felon and you don't have the right to vote,' " said Halifax County election board Chairwoman Sandra Partin, according to the News & Observer, as her county rejected a voter fraud case. "You've got to have some proof to back that up." 
Rhonda Amoroso, a Republican State Board of Elections member, said she found the complaints troubling. "It may appear to folks in the public that we have a systemic issue of voter fraud," she said. "It puts a cloud over the integrity of the election process of North Carolina." 
If McCrory loses, he'll be the only incumbent governor to lose this year -and one of just a handful of sitting governors to lose in the modern era. His approval rating dropped this spring after he signed a bill that limited which public bathrooms transgender people could use and blocked municipalities' ability to pass anti-gay-discrimination laws. Backlash to the law reverberated across the business, sports and entertainment community. PayPal pulled out of a deal with the state, and Bruce Springsteen canceled a concert there in protest. The NBA and NCAA also canceled their tournaments in the state. 
McCrory's re-election bid had another setback Sunday. His campaign had asked the State Board of Elections to review all of its protests, as opposed to letting each county do it individually. 
With one exception, the state ruled Sunday it wouldn't supersede the counties; instead it met Tuesday to issue each county guidelines on when to accept or reject many of these challenges. 
McCrory's camp says that, given how slim the margin of victory is, it makes sense to wait until every last vote is counted before either side declares victory. There's also a remote possibility the GOP-dominated General Assembly could step in to try to settle this. 
But the chips would have to fall a very certain way for that to happen, and GOP legislators have indicated they'd be reluctant to get involved, even to try to save their own governor. 
The Washington Post and Raleigh News & Observer contributed. 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Hartford Courant Co. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
News services, 'N.C. governorrequests recountHe trails Demchallengerby about8,000 votes', Hartford Courant, The (online), 24 Nov 2016 9A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160DB2FFF7B43160 
