Hearings -Sessions Defends Rights Record -Nominee Says He'll Uphold Laws 
January 11, 2017 | Hartford Courant, The (CT) 
Author: DEL QUENTIN WILBER 
Section: Main 
900 Words 
Page: 1A 
OpenURL 
Link 
WASHINGTON -Sen. Jeff Sessions forcefully defended his civil rights record Tuesday and pledged that as the nation's next attorney general he would put aside his personal views and uphold laws protecting abortion and same-sex marriage. 
Testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee as President-elect Donald Trump's nominee to lead the Justice Department, Sessions also vowed to recuse himself from decisions involving former Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton's handling of classified material. 
The daylong confirmation hearing was a mostly collegial affair with fellow senators politely prodding the 70-year-old former federal prosecutor to explain his record on issues ranging from torture to immigration. 
As a longtime member of the committee now reviewing his expected nomination to become the nation's top law enforcement officer, Sessions has sat on the opposite side of the witness table for five previous confirmation hearings for attorney general candidates. 
So it's no surprise that the seasoned Alabama lawmaker avoided any self-inflicted wounds during his testimony, keeping his composure amid questioning and periodic disruptions from protesters in the audience. 
When pressed on his opposition to abortion and same-sex marriage, for example, the conservative senator told Democratic colleagues that both issues had been settled by the Supreme Court and that he would abide by those decisions. Similarly, on the use of waterboarding against terrorism suspects, which Sessions has previously supported, he said Congress had clearly outlawed the practice. 
Session began his testimony by offering his most strident defense yet of allegations that as a U.S. attorney in the 1980s he had improperly targeted civil rights advocates for prosecution on voter fraud charges and had made racially insensitive comments about the Ku Klux Klan and minorities. 
"These are damnably false charges," Sessions said, adding that he "did not harbor the race-based animosities I am accused of. I did not." 
Those accusations, made by fellow Justice Department attorneys at the time, helped torpedo Sessions' 1986 nomination by President Ronald Reagan to become a federal judge. 
"There was an organized effort to caricature me as something that wasn't true," he said. "It was very 
painful. I didn't know how to respond and didn't respond very well. I hope my tenure in this body has shown you that the caricature that was created of me was not accurate. It wasn't accurate then, and it's not accurate now." 
Sessions is again being assailed by civil rights groups, which point to his Senate record of voting against hate-crime legislation, immigration reform and efforts to ban torture as evidence that he would not fairly enforce the laws protecting minorities. 
Sessions testified that he hoped to work closely with police and would aggressively combat gun violence, gang crimes and drug trafficking. He said he felt that criticism of police misconduct should be "narrowly focused on the right basis" because too often mistakes are used to "to smear whole departments" and that "places those officers at greater risk." 
The senator did not stray from his previous views on immigration enforcement, testifying he would aggressively "prosecute those who repeatedly violate our borders" and support rescinding an Obama administration program that deferred deportation of hundreds of thousands of so-called Dreamers, those brought to the country illegally as children. 
On counterterrorism, Sessions said he would fight the "scourge of radical Islam" and believed that the 
U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, should continue to house terror suspects. President Barack Obama was unable to fulfill his pledge to close the detention facility, which still holds 55 detainees, 19 of whom have been cleared for release. 
Sessions added that he does not support "the idea that Muslims as a religious group should be denied admissions to the United States," a position Trump once backed. 
The hearing is scheduled to continue Wednesday with a long list of witnesses, including Democratic Sen. Cory Booker, who said he will take the unprecedented step of opposing a fellow senator's candidacy for a Cabinet job. 
Sessions was the first of Trump's Cabinet contenders to begin what is expected to be a combative confirmation process over the next few weeks. 
Sessions, one of the most conservative members of Congress, is widely expected to win confirmation from his colleagues in the Republican-controlled Senate. No sitting U.S. senator has ever been rejected for a Cabinet position, and GOP senators on the committee offered nothing but unstinting support on Tuesday. 
Even so, Sessions has a long and complicated history on racial matters, and the toughest questions posed by senators focused on how he would deal with civil rights laws, hate crimes and access to the polls. 
Sen. Dianne Feinstein, the ranking Democrat on the committee, set a tough tone by saying that since the election, many citizens have expressed "deep anxiety about the direction of this country and whether this nominee will enforce the law fairly, evenly and without personal bias." 
"Today we are not being asked to evaluate him as a senator," the California senator said, acknowledging that many of her Democratic colleagues like Sessions personally and professionally. "Will he be independent of the White House? Will he tell the president 'no' when necessary?" 
Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., grew testy when questioning Sessions about several civil rights lawsuits Sessions had listed on his Senate questionnaire as examples of "significant" cases that Sessions personally litigated during his career. 
The Trump transition team later said the cases were worthy of being mentioned, even though Sessions had not been actively involved in them. 
Franken suggested that the Trump campaign or Sessions was trying to inflate his civil rights accomplishments. 
Copyright (c) 2017 The Hartford Courant Co. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
DEL QUENTIN WILBER, Tribune Washington Bureau, 'Hearings Sessions Defends Rights Record Nominee Says He'll Uphold Laws', Hartford Courant, The (online), 11 Jan 2017 1A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/161D82AD74312CF0 
