County prosecutor wades into fraud debate 
October 27, 2016 | Evansville Courier & Press (IN) 
Author: Chelsea Schneider 
Section: News 
575 Words 
Page: A5 
OpenURL 
Link 
Marion County Prosecutor Terry Curry on Wednesday called accusations of voter fraud "premature" and claims of voter suppression "without merit." 
In a statement, Curry addressed allegations of voter fraud that have swirled around this year's election as Indiana State Police investigate a voter registration group with Democratic ties for possible illegal activities. 
"If evidence of suspected criminal activity in Marion County is presented to our office, we will review that information for potential criminal charges," Curry said. "Accusations of fraud or other intentional acts prior to the conclusion of a thorough review by law enforcement and a prosecutor are premature and contrary to the foundational principle of presumed innocence until and unless proven guilty." 
Curry, a Democrat, said he advised State Police to not release further information on the agency's investigation. 
But Curry also criticized third parties, though not by name, for making "reckless assertions" of voter suppression and intimidation. 
Patriot Majority USA, which is linked to the Indiana Voter Registration Project, has lobbed harsh criticism on Indiana Secretary of State Connie Lawson and the State Police for criticizing their efforts. The group also has accused Gov. Mike Pence and his supporters of suppressing Hoosiers' right to vote. 
"We trust our public safety partners at the Indiana State Police to thoroughly and appropriately investigate the allegations of irregularities in some voter registrations," Curry said. 
Last week, State Police said new information from Indiana Secretary of State Connie Lawson "may serve as evidence of forgery" by the group linked to Patriot Majority USA. The investigation began in September after several county clerks said they were concerned by handwritten voter registrations turned in by the group. State Police have said they are investigating potential fraud in 56 counties. 
Lawson had said her office turned over to State Police thousands of instances where the birth dates or first names of voters were changed. Local election officials have told IndyStar they're not seeing those discrepancies, or information changed without a voter's knowledge. 
"Because of these new revelations, the magnitude of the possible fraud involved and with the election less than three weeks away, I have directed all available resources within the Indiana State Police to 
assist with this investigation," State Police Superintendent Doug Carter said at the time. 
On Friday, Carter went on RTV6-TV and said he believes "there's voter fraud and voter forgery in every state of America." 
But tensions between Lawson and Patriot Majority have risen. The group hired a firm to review Indiana's voter registration database and released a report this week that indicated thousands of people remain on the list who are likely deceased. 
Lawson, a Republican, blasted the group and the Indiana Democratic Party, whose officials have chided her for using "inflammatory rhetoric." 
"Clearly I take voter list maintenance very seriously," Lawson said on Tuesday. "I am not sure why Patriot Majority is so defensive unless they are trying to distract people with this information. Why is Patriot Majority not concerned for these voters who may be disenfranchised if their information was changed without their knowledge? I would never go so far as to say someone is incompetent like the Democrat Party and Patriot Majority did to me." 
Patriot Majority hit back Wednesday, alleging that Lawson was using her elected office to mount political attacks. 
"I guess everyone is entitled to a temper tantrum when they get exposed for gross negligence and incompetence, but it's unacceptable to use tax dollars for partisan purposes," Patriot Majority USA spokesman Bill Buck said. 
 2016 Journal Media Group 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Chelsea Schneider, Chelsea.Schneider@ indystar.com, 'County prosecutor wades into fraud debate', Evansville Courier & Press (online), 27 Oct 2016 A5 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16047DA3B14E67F0 
