In the past week, President Donald Trump: 
January 29, 2017 | Times-Picayune, The (New Orleans, LA) 
Section: NATIONAL 
305 Words 
Page: A05 
OpenURL 
Link 
Moved to pull the United States out of the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact. 
Signed a memorandum freezing most federal government hiring, though he noted an exception for the military. 
Signed a memorandum reinstating a ban on providing federal money to international groups that perform abortions or provide information on the option. 
Signed executive orders to revive the controversial Dakota Access and Keystone XL oil pipelines. He also signed an executive order to expedite environmental reviews of other infrastructure projects, lamenting the existing incredibly cumbersome, long, horrible permitting process. 
Announced the first arms sales, saying the administration had approved sending various munitions and equipment to four countries, including Saudi Arabia. Approval of the transfers has to be finalized by Congress. 
Ordered what the administration described as a temporary media blackout at the Environmental Protection Agency and barred staff from awarding any new contracts or grants, part of a broader communications clampdown within the executive branch. The Trump administration also has ordered what it called a temporary suspension of all new business activities at the department, including issuing task orders or work assignments to EPA contractors. 
Said he would call for an investigation of voter fraud. 
Signed an order to start building a border wall with Mexico. He endorsed a 20 percent tax on Mexican imports to raise $10 billion a year to pay for a border wall with Mexico that is estimated to cost between $8 billion and $20 billion. 
Signed an executive order that suspended entry of all refugees to the United States for 120 days, barred Syrian refugees indefinitely and blocked entry into the United States for 90 days for citizens of seven predominantly Muslim countries: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. 
Asked the Joint Chiefs of Staff to come up with a plan to defeat the Islamic State. 
Sources: The Associated Press, The New York Times, The Washington Post 
Copyright, 2017, The Times -Picayune Publishing Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Used by NewsBank with Permission. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'In the past week, President Donald Trump:', Times-Picayune, The (online), 29 Jan 2017 A05 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16236E24399D2158 
