Donald Trump supporter charged with voting twice in Iowa 
October 29, 2016 | Times-Picayune, The: Web Edition Articles (New Orleans, LA) Section: Politics 
715 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
A woman in Iowa was arrested this week on suspicion of voting twice in the presidential election, court and police records show. Terri Lynn Rote, a 55-year-old Des Moines resident, was booked Thursday (Oct. 27) with first-degree election misconduct, a Class D felony, according to Polk County jail records. 
Rote was released Friday after posting $5,000 bond. A preliminary hearing is scheduled Nov. 7. 
The Des Moines Register reported that Rote is a registered Republican who cast two ballots in the general election: one at an early voting ballot at the Polk County election office and another at a county satellite voting location, according to police records. Rote told Iowa Public Radio that she cast her first ballot for Donald Trump but feared it would be changed to a vote for Hillary Clinton. 
"I wasn't planning on doing it twice; it was spur-of-the-moment," Rote told the radio station. "The polls are rigged." 
A phone number was not listed for Rote. She did not immediately respond to a message sent to a Facebook account in her name. Leigh Munsil, an editor for the Blaze, said on Twitter that Rote is the same woman who had caucused for Trump earlier this year. 
In addition to Rote, the Polk County auditor's office reported two other people to police Wednesday on suspicions of voter fraud, The Register reported. In those cases, people cast mail-in ballots and also voted in person at one of the state's early-voting locations, according to the paper. No arrests were made in the two other cases, the paper reported. 
County Auditor Jamie Fitzgerald told The Register it was the first time he could remember in 12 years of having to report possible voter fraud. "I think it shows that our voting system works in Iowa, that we're able to catch it," Fitzgerald told the paper, adding that the reported instances could have been honest mistakes but "that's not for me to decide." 
Polk is the most populous county in Iowa with 430,640 residents, and it includes Des Moines, the state's capital. Early voting in Polk County began on Sept. 29. Fitzgerald's office has been posting regular updates on Twitter about the progress of early voting in the county. 
Polls show an extremely close race between Clinton and Trump in Iowa, historically a swing state. According to a Quinnipiac University poll released two days ago, Clinton and Trump were tied in Iowa with 44 percent of the vote each. In September, the same poll had showed Trump leading Clinton, 44 percent to 37 percent. 
In the closing weeks of the 2016 presidential race, Trump has repeatedly asserted that the election process is "rigged," presumably against him. The Republican candidate's surrogates have amplified those allegations. Two weeks ago, former New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani insisted Democrats overwhelmingly engage in voter fraud because they "control the inner cities." 
Last week, Eric Trump said on ABC's "This Week" that his father would accept election results, but only if it was a "fair" election. He backed up his statement with statistics that the Trump campaign has often used to allege "widespread voter fraud." Numerous news outlets, including The Washington Post's Fact Checker, have debunked such statements. 
Though there is no evidence of widespread voter fraud occurring in U.S. elections, almost half of the country's residents think voter fraud occurs at least somewhat often, according to a Washington Post-ABC News poll released in September. 
Both major presidential candidates made appearances in Iowa on Friday, in an effort to gain crucial votes in the battleground state. After two campaign rallies, Clinton held a brief news conference to criticize FBI Director James Comey for not disclosing more details about why the agency is making a new inquiry into her private email server. 
"We are 11 days out from perhaps the most important national election of our lifetimes," Clinton said. "The American people deserve to get the full and complete facts immediately." 
Later Friday, Trump held a rally in Cedar Rapids. He cheered the FBI's decision: The system "might not be as rigged as I thought," Trump told the crowd. 
....... 
Story by Amy Wang. 
Copyright, 2016, Times -Picayune. All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Donald Trump supporter charged with voting twice in Iowa', Times-Picayune, The: Web Edition Articles (online), 29 Oct 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16057D1F1D1845D0 
