p=AWNB&docref=news/1602DA61A9B29368 
Debate fact check:Once again, Donald Trump shows disregard for employing facts 
October 20, 2016 | Times-Picayune, The: Web Edition Articles (New Orleans, LA) Section: Politics 
1278 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
The final presidential debate once again demonstrated Donald Trump's thin grasp of the facts and his willingness to make poorly sourced or inaccurate claims. Hillary Clinton, for the most part, was more factually accurate. Here's a roundup of some of the more notable claims. 
"Just like when you ran the State Department, $6 billion was missing. How do you miss $6 billion? You ran the State Department, $6 billion was either stolen. They don't know. It's gone, $6 billion. " --Trump 
We had previously labeled untrue Trump's false claim, apparently aimed at rebutting news stories about the nearly $1 billion loss that he claimed in a 2005 tax return that was made public by the New York Times. 
Trump misunderstands a $6 billion figure that appeared in a 2014 management alert from the State Department Inspector General. The alert summarized a variety of recent audits that indicated paperwork deficiencies in closing out contracts thatwere issued in Iraq, Afghanistan and Africa. But no money is missing or lost, a point that the IG emphasized in a letter to The Washington Post in 2014. Instead, the alert highlighted missing paperwork, not dollars. Trump is also wrong to blame Clinton. We examined the audit reports referenced in the alert and concluded that easily two-thirds, or perhaps more, concerned contracts that predated Clinton's tenure at State. 
"We have 33,000 people every year who die from guns." --Clinton 
Clinton is essentially right: There were nearly 34,000 firearm deaths in the United States in 2013, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. But it is worth noting that more than 60 percent were from suicides, not gun violence. 
"Based on where she's going, and where she's been, you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month on the final day. And that's not acceptable." --Trump 
Trump asserted that abortions can take place just a day before birth. Nope. Most abortions take place early in the pregnancy. One-third take place at six weeks of pregnancy or earlier; 89 percent occur in the 
first 12 weeks, according to the Guttmacher Institute, which supports abortion rights. Only 1.2 percent of abortions -about 12,000 a year -take place after 21 weeks. (The Supreme Court has held that states may not prohibit abortions "necessary to preserve the life or health" of the woman.) On top of that, Guttmacher says that 43 states already prohibit some abortions after a certain point in pregnancy, such as fetal viability, in the third trimester or after a certain number of weeks. 
"I do not add a penny to the national debt." --Clinton 
This lacks some context. The national debt is projected to grow by $9 trillion over the next decade. But Clinton's plan would not add significantly more to the debt, according to the nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, which has analyzed the economic impact of every proposal by both nominees. She would add $200 billion over a decade, which is a relatively small amount, compared with the debt. Trump's plans would add $5.3 trillion to the debt. 
That $200 billion could be canceled out by Clinton's business tax reform plan, which is estimated to generate $275 billion in revenue. At that point, indeed, her plan would "not add a penny to the national debt" beyond its currently projected growth. If the full $275 billion is generated, it would even result in a modest deficit reduction. 
But since Clinton has not released a detailed plan for the business tax reform plan, the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget has not been able to score it yet. 
"He shipped jobs to 12 countries, including Mexico." --Clinton 
This is correct. Trump has a long history of outsourcing a variety of his products and has acknowledged doing so. We know of at least 12 countries where Trump products were manufactured: China, the Netherlands, Mexico, India, Turkey, Slovenia, Honduras, Germany, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Vietnam and South Korea. 
"I started with a $1 million loan . . . but I built a phenomenal company." --Trump 
Trump consistently lowballs the help he got from his father. The "$1 million loan" ignores the fact that he joined his father's thriving real estate business after college and that he relied on his father's connections as he made his way in the real estate world. 
For instance, Fred Trump -along with the Hyatt hotel chain -jointly guaranteed the $70 million 
construction loan for Trump's first big deal, each assuming a 50 percent share of the obligation. Trump also benefited from three trusts that had been set up for family members, worth about $4 million in inflation-adjusted dollars. Trump's father also gave Trump a $7.5 million loan that was still outstanding in 1981. 
In a 2007 deposition, Trump admitted he had borrowed "a small amount" from his father's estate: "I think it was like in the $9 million range." And as Trump's casinos ran into trouble, Trump's father purchased $3.5 million in gaming chips but did not use them so that the casino would have enough cash to make payments on its mortgage -a transaction that casino authorities later said was an illegal loan. 
"She destroyed 33,000 emails criminally, criminally, after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress." --Trump 
Trump is technically correct on the timeline, but Clinton's staff had requested the emails to be deleted months before the subpoena, according to the FBI's August 2016 report. Moreover, there's no evidence Clinton deleted the emails in anticipation of the subpoena, and FBI Director James B. Comey has said his agency's investigation found no evidence that any work-related emails were "intentionally deleted in an effort to conceal them." 
"If you look at your voter rolls, you will see millions of people that are registered to vote . . . that shouldn't be registered to vote." --Trump 
Trump cited a 2012 Pew Center on the States study as the source of this claim during the debate, while indicating that there may be voter fraud during the election. But this study looked at ways to make the election system more accurate, cost-effective and efficient. It did not say that these problems indicated signs of isolated or widespread voter fraud. 
On Obamacare, "the premiums are going up 60, 70, 80 percent." --Trump 
Premiums are expected to increase overall in 2017, but Trump is cherry-picking from the highest proposed increases in the insurance marketplace. State-by-state weighted-average increases range from 1.3 percent in Rhode Island to 71 percent in Oklahoma. But the most common plans in the marketplace will see an average increase of 9 percent, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation's July analysis. 
"We take care of illegal immigrants -people who come into our country illegally -better than we take care of our vets." --Trump 
This is an absurd comparison that we have called untrue. Broadly speaking, people who are in the United States illegally aren't granted the same rights as people here legally -both civilians and veterans. Unauthorized people, who are not granted any deferred-action status that deems them lawfully present in the country, are not eligible to receive Social Security benefits or any other federal means tested benefits. And even though the unauthorized population can't collect the benefits, they paid about $12 billion into the cash flow of the Social Security program in 2010, according to the Social Security actuary. 
(c) 2016, The Washington Post. Glenn Kessler and Michelle Ye Hee Lee wrote this story. Kessler has reported on domestic and foreign policy for more than three decades. Ye Hee Lee reports for The Fact Checker. 
Copyright, 2016, Times -Picayune. All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Debate fact check: Once again, Donald Trump shows disregard for employing facts', Times-Picayune, The: Web Edition Articles (online), 20 Oct 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16025D494DC70DC8 
