
Trump continues to push ‘rigged election’ theme
Newspaper October 17, 2016 | Las Vegas Review-Journal (NV)
Author: EMILY STEPHENSON and ALANA WISE REUTERS Section: Elections, Politics 545 Words
Page: A006
Trump continues to push ‘rigged election’ theme
GREEN BAY, Wis. — Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump on Monday cited studies he said showed rampant voter fraud, saying the Nov. 8 election was “rigged” against him even as Republican lawyers called his allegations unfounded.

Trump, a New York businessman making his first run for public office, has sought to raise fears of a flawed election as he has fallen in opinion polls against Democrat Hillary Clinton.

“They even want to try to rig the election at the polling place,” Trump told a rally in Green Bay. “So many cities are corrupt and voter fraud is very, very common.”

Trump cited Pew Trusts research from 2012 that called for updates to the voter registration system because about 24 million registrations were inaccurate.

He also referred to a 2014 article by two political scientists in The Washington Post that said noncitizens who voted could have accounted for Democratic victories in a few close elections in 2008, although the authors acknowledged the sample size of their study was small.

Numerous studies show that voter fraud in U.S. elections is very rare.

Republican campaign lawyer Chris Ashby said Trump’s charges could foment unrest and were “unfounded” and “dangerous.”

“When you say an election is rigged, you’re telling voters, your supporters, their votes do not matter,” Ashby said in an interview. “I think some of Donald Trump’s comments could cause unrest at the polls.”

Some Republicans have urged Trump to drop the assertions. Early voting and voting by mail have already begun in many states.

Trump also pounced on the release on Monday of Federal Bureau of Investigation documents that he alleged showed “felony corruption.”

The documents cited an FBI official as saying a senior State Department official sought to pressure the bureau in 2015 to drop its insistence that an email from Clinton’s private server contained classified information.

Clinton’s decision to use a private server while secretary of state from 2009 to 2013 has drawn criticism that she was careless with national security.

“This is worse than Watergate, what’s going on with this,” said Trump.

He also proposed a package of ethics reforms, saying that if elected he would ban his administration officials from lobbying government for five years after leaving government.

The RealClearPolitics average of national opinion polls shows Clinton leading Trump by 7.1 percentage points, at 46 percent to 38.9 percent.

Trump’s campaign has been shaken since the release 10 days ago of a 2005 tape showing him lewdly bragging about kissing and touching women without their permission. A series of women have since come forward with allegations about such behavior on his part, but he has denied those accusations.

On Monday, the allegations were in the headlines again after Trump’s wife, Melania Trump, spoke publicly for the first time about the “Access Hollywood” tape.

Melania Trump, who has mainly stayed off the campaign trail, told CNN she was surprised by her husband’s language and said she thought he had been “egged on” to “say dirty and bad stuff,” calling it “boy talk.”

Melania Trump, a former model, told CNN that the allegations of unwanted touching from women were “all organized from the opposition” and said media did not “check the background of these women.”

In an interview with Fox News Channel, she said she had forgiven her husband for the comments in the tape.
Copyright (c) 2016, Las Vegas Review-Journal
