
Indiana officials: Voter fraud reports based in fact
Newspaper October 23, 2016 | Las Vegas Review-Journal (NV)
Author: JAWEED KALEEM LOS ANGELES TIMES Section: Elections, Politics 298 Words
Page: A026
Indiana officials: Voter fraud reports based in fact
Indiana’s top cop suggested Friday that investigators had uncovered many instances of voter fraud in the state, an allegation that adds fuel to a fiery debate over whether elections are “rigged” and subject to abuse.

Indiana State Police Superintendent Douglas Carter said in a local TV interview that Gov. Mike Pence “absolutely did not misspeak” this week when he warned supporters of potential voter fraud during a campaign stop in Nevada. Carter said he believed there was voter fraud in “every state,” including Indiana.

Carter refused to provide details about how many instances of voter fraud police have found, or the exact nature of the fraud — whether investigators found, for example, cases of people registering to vote multiple times or whether those ineligible to vote tried to register.

A state police spokesman, Capt. David Bursten, also declined to share details, saying that “the superintendent’s interview speaks for itself.”

The comments came amid an ongoing state investigation into potential voter fraud in 56 of Indiana’s 96 counties, which isn’t likely to be resolved before Election Day, Nov. 8.

Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has repeatedly charged that the election is “rigged” against him. Pence, his running mate, said voter fraud can be found in “pockets and places around the country.”

Experts have found voter fraud to be extremely rare, with one study from a Loyola Law School professor finding just 31 credible claims of fraud amid more than 1 billion ballots cast since 2000. The head elections officers in most presidential battleground states are Republicans.

The Indiana investigation, prompted by a tip to police and launched Oct. 4 in Hendricks County and Marion County, focuses on voter registration forms submitted by a group called the Indiana Voter Registration Project. The group had submitted registration forms with “missing, incomplete and incorrect information,” according to a police statement.
Copyright (c) 2016, Las Vegas Review-Journal
