High Court reinstates Arizonas curb on early voting 
November 6, 2016 | Boston Herald (MA) Section: News 
270 Words 
Volume: 34 Issue: 311 Page: 6 
OpenURL 
Link 
PHOENIX  The U.S. Supreme Court yesterday reinstated an Arizona law that makes it a felony to collect early ballots, stepping into a contentious political issue days before the presidential election and dealing a blow to Democratic get-out-the-vote efforts. 
The unsigned order from the nations highest court overturns an appeals court decision from a day earlier that blocked the new law and drew celebration from Democrats. Groups immediately launched a renewed effort to help voters deliver their ballots to the polls. 
The Supreme Court decision called into question what happens to ballots that have already been legally collected from voters in the approximately 20 hours that the law was blocked. Arizona filed an emergency appeal hours after the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals blocked the law Friday. Justice Anthony Kennedy referred the case to the entire Supreme Court, and the court issued a brief order overturning the appeals court. The 9th Circuit will now consider the law in January. 
The high court decision is unusual because it takes at least five votes to issue such an order and the court is split 4-4 along conservative-liberal lines after the death of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia earlier this year. That means at least one of the courts liberals agreed to allow the law to go back into effect. 
Collecting early ballots is especially effective in minority communities, and Democrats alleged the law hurts minorities ability to vote. Arizonas majority Republican lawmakers approved the law earlier this year over the objection of Democrats. 
GOP Gov. Doug Ducey called it a common-sense effort to protect the integrity of elections and eliminate voter fraud. 
 ASSOCIATED PRESS 
Copyright (c) 2016 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'High Court reinstates Arizonas curb on early voting', Boston Herald (online), 6 Nov 2016, 34 (311) 6 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16083A67CBCC89D0 
