Trump calls for probe into unsubstantiated voter fraud claim 
January 26, 2017 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) Author:JONATHANLEMIREand ERICTUCKER Associated Press 
The WashingtonPostcontributed to this report. Section: News 488 Words 
Page: A20 
OpenURL 
Link 
WASHINGTON  President Donald Trump declared Wednesday that he is ordering a major investigation into widespread voter fraud, raising the prospect of a federal government investigation into a widely debunked claim and sparking alarm among experts and Democrats. 
Trump announced in a pair of early morning tweets that the investigation would look at those registered to vote in more than one state, those who are illegal and ... even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time). Depending on results, the Republican tweeted on his sixth day in office, we will strengthen up voting procedures! 
He went further later Wednesday, claiming: You have people registered in two states. Theyre registered in a New York and a New Jersey. They vote twice. 
There are millions of votes, in my opinion, Trump told ABC. Of those votes cast, none of them come to me. None of them come to me. 
All 50 states and the District of Columbia have finalized their election results with no reports of the kind of widespread fraud that Trump alleges. 
Trump won the Electoral College, but he lost the popular vote by nearly 2.9 million votes to Democrat Hillary Clinton. That popular vote tally has fixated Trump, who worries that it has led to questions about the legitimacy of his victory, aides say. 
The White House provided few details on what the investigation may entail. Press secretary Sean Spicer would not say whether the investigation would be led by the FBI or some other agency. He said only that its goal would be to understand where the problem exists and how deep it goes. 
Spicer suggested a task force could be commissioned to focus on dead people who remained on voter rolls and people registered in two or more states. And he said it could center on bigger states where Trump didnt compete during the campaign, singling out California and New York, two Democratic strongholds. 
Trumps tweet alarmed Democrats who already believe that moves to tighten voter ID laws are a means to restrict access to the ballot box. Like the president, Trumps pick for attorney general, Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., who could oversee any federal investigation, has shown sympathy toward claims of voting fraud. 
Speaking to congressional leaders on Monday, Trump said 3 to 5 million immigrants in the U.S. illegally voted in the election, denying him a popular vote majority. If that claim were true, it would mark the most significant election fraud in U.S. history  and ironically, would raise the same questions about Trumps legitimacy that hes trying to avoid. 
Trumps own attorneys dismissed claims of voter fraud in a legal filing responding to Green Party candidate Jill Steins demand for a recount in Michigan, a state Trump won, late last year. 
Copyright (c) 2017 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
JONATHANLEMIREand ERICTUCKER;AssociatedPress;The Washington Postcontributed to this report., 'Trump calls for probe into unsubstantiated voter fraud claim', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 26 Jan 2017 A20 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/documentview?p=AWNB&docref=news/162289A2ED1F8768 
