Trump eyes Cabinet vacancies, policy questions 
January 4, 2017 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author: STEVE PEOPLES Associated Press The Washington Post contributed to this report. 
Section: 
News 
764 Words Page: A13 
OpenURL 
Link 
NEW YORK  President-elect Donald Trump pressed to fill senior posts in his administration on Tuesday even as new questions emerged about his priorities at home and abroad. 
His inauguration less than three weeks away, Trump tapped as U.S. trade representative a former Ronald Reagan aide who has condemned Republicans commitment to free trade. The incoming president indicated that Robert Lighthizer, who is expected to take a hard line against China, would represent the United States as we fight for good trade deals that put the American worker first. 
The new administrations specific plans for crafting new trade deals, spokesman Sean Spicer said, will come in time. 
While several hundred high-level White House posts remain unfilled, just a handful of Cabinet-level vacancies remain, specifically in the departments of Agriculture and Veterans Affairs, as well as a director of national intelligence. Trumps private meetings Tuesday included one with Leo MacKay, a senior executive at a military contractor who previously served in the Department of Veterans Affairs under President George W. Bush. 
The president-elect is up on the issues, said MacKay, a senior vice president at Lockheed Martin Corp., citing first-class health care for veterans as one of his priorities. 
Omarosa Manigault, a memorable contestant in the first season of The Apprentice, is expected to join Trumps White House staff, according to two people familiar with the decision. Her job is expected to focus on public engagement. 
Manigault was one of Trumps most prominent African-American supporters during the campaign and has been working with his transition team. This will be her second tour of duty at the White House  she worked in the office of Vice President Al Gore during Bill Clintons administration. 
SESSIONS OPPOSED 
Meanwhile, Trumps choice for attorney general  Sen. Jeff Sessions  has run into strong opposition from law school professors across the U.S. A group of more than 1,100 professors sent a letter to Congress on Tuesday urging the Senate to reject the Alabama Republicans nomination. 
The letter, signed by professors from 170 law schools in 48 states, is also scheduled to run as a full
page newspaper ad aimed at members of the Senate Judiciary Committee, which will be holding confirmation hearings for Sessions on Jan. 10-11. 
We are convinced that Jeff Sessions will not fairly enforce our nations laws and promote justice and equality in the United States, states the letter, signed by prominent legal scholars including Laurence H. Tribe of Harvard Law School, Geoffrey R. Stone of the University of Chicago Law School, Pamela S. Karlan of Stanford Law School and Erwin Chemerinsky of the University of California, Irvine School of Law. 
The professors  from every state except North Dakota and Alaska, which has no law school  highlight the rejection of Sessionss nomination to a federal judgeship more than 30 years ago. 
The law professors wrote that some of them have concerns about Sessions prosecution of three civil rights activists for voter fraud in Alabama in 1985, his support for building a wall along the nations southern border and his repeated opposition to legislative efforts to promote the rights of women and members of the LGBTQ community. 
While tending to his Cabinet Tuesday, the president-elect and his senior advisers also worked to craft a domestic and international agenda while huddled behind closed doors in his Manhattan skyscraper. 
He signaled Tuesday that he would not bless all of the GOPs priorities on Capitol Hill, however, openly questioning the timing of the House Republican push to gut an independent ethics board just as the new Congress gathered in Washington. 
Vice president-elect Mike Pence and Trumps pick for secretary of state, ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson, were planning separate visits with lawmakers on Wednesday. 
Copyright (c) 2017 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
STEVE PEOPLES; Associated Press; The Washington Post contributed to this report., 'Trump eyes Cabinet vacancies, policy questions', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 4 Jan 2017 A13 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/161B4753F7E49030 
