Michigan vote certified for Trump, but more recount requests loom 
November 29, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) Author: NANCY BENAC Associated Press 
Julie 
Pace and Catherine Lucey of the Associated Press contributed to this report. Section: News 853 Words 
Page: A6 
OpenURL 
Link 
WASHINGTON  Nearly three weeks after Election Day, Michigan officials certified Monday that Donald Trump won the state by 10,704 votes out of nearly 4.8 million to claim all of its 16 electoral votes. Theres more wrangling to come, though, on the final vote count for this contentious campaign. 
Jill Steins Green Party served notice that it would petition for a Michigan recount even as her party pushed forward with recount efforts in Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, where Trump won by somewhat wider but still small margins. 
Should the results for Trump hold in all three states, as expected, the president-elect would have 306 electoral votes to 232 for Democrat Hillary Clinton. It takes 270 to be elected president. 
Only if the results were overturned in all three states would Clinton have a claim on the presidency, and that is widely considered to be out of the question. 
If its any consolation for Clinton, however,  and its probably mighty little  shes is winning the national popular vote. With some votes still being counted, she is ahead by more than 2 million, about 1.5 percent of the total counted so far. 
Trump, in a series of weekend tweets complaining about the Midwest recount efforts, said the Green Party was engaged in a scam to fill up their coffers and that defeated & demoralized Dems were joining in. 
Trump angrily denounced the recounts and now claims without evidence that he, not Clinton, would have won the popular vote if it hadnt been for millions of people who voted illegally. On Twitter, he singled out Virginia, California and New Hampshire. 
There has been no indication of widespread election tampering or voter fraud in those states or any others, and Trump aides struggled Monday to back up their bosss claim. 
Spokesman Jason Miller said illegal voting was an issue of concern. But the only evidence he raised was a 2014 news report and a study on voting irregularities conducted before the 2016 election. 
PUSH CONTINUES 
Stein, who won 1.4 million votes nationwide, or about 1 percent of the count, signaled her determination 
to keep pushing the Midwest recount efforts, saying that Americans deserve a voting system we can trust. As of Monday, she had raised $6.2 million to finance recounts, according to her campaign website. 
After a presidential election tarnished by the use of outdated and unreliable machines and accusations of irregularities and hacks, people of all political persuasions are asking if our election results are reliable, she said in a statement. 
There is no evidence that voter results were hacked or that electronic voting machines were compromised. 
The Clinton campaign, which declined to initiate recounts on its own, said over the weekend that it would participate in the recounts requested by Stein to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to all sides, in the words of campaign lawyer Marc Elias. 
Steins campaign said she would file a petition Wednesday for a Michigan recount, after which Trump would have seven days to file objections. Trumps margin of victory in the state was a slim 0.22 percent of the total vote. 
Michigan Republican Party Chairwoman Ronna Romney McDaniel said a recount would be a waste of time and disrespectful to all Michigan voters. 
Chris Thomas, director of the Michigan Bureau of Elections, said the recount would begin as early as Friday to meet a Dec. 13 deadline. Under state policy, the recount will be conducted by hand. 
He said election officials had heard a lot this year about so-called fraud ... without any foundation in fact, and a recount settling that question could provide one silver lining. 
MORE TO COME 
In Wisconsin, meanwhile, the state elections commission approved on Monday a timeline to start a recount on Thursday. Stein is pushing for a hand count of the nearly 3 million ballots cast in the state, but the commission left it up to local election officials to determine the best method. 
Steins Wisconsin recount request included an affidavit from University of Michigan computer scientist J. Alex Halderman stating that a hand recount is the only way to determine whether there could have been a cyberattack that affected the results. He argued that records stored in electronic voting equipment could have been manipulated in an attack. 
The AP updated on Monday its election night vote count in Wisconsin to correct the totals for both candidates in three separate counties. The updates dropped Trumps margin over Clinton to 22,460 votes from 27,257 votes, or 0.8 percent of the total vote. The corrections were made during the regular 
postelection canvass of the election-night vote. 
In Pennsylvania, where Trump edged Clinton by about 71,000 votes, or about 1 percent of the vote, Stein filed a lawsuit seeking a statewide recount, but it wasnt clear if the courts had the authority to order one. 
Secretary of State Pedro Cortes, a Democrat, said there was no evidence of voting irregularities or cyberattacks on Pennsylvanias voting machines, 96 percent of which record votes electronically and leave no paper trail. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
NANCY BENAC; Associated Press; Julie Pace and Catherine Lucey of the Associated Press contributed to this report., 'Michigan vote certified for Trump, but more recount requests loom', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 29 Nov 2016 A6 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160F7202008E8460 
