Nation briefs 
October 20, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) Author:Fromnews services 
Section:News 
1145Words 
Page: A10 
OpenURL 
Link 
Prosecutors launch second bid for conviction in Etan Patz death 
Revisiting a crime that shattered a bygone eras sense of safety, prosecutors launched on Wednesday their second bid for a conviction in one of the nations most influential missing-child cases, the disappearance of Etan Patz in 1979. 
After a jury deadlock last year, suspect Pedro Hernandez is back on trial in a case that eluded investigators for decades, ratcheted up Americans consciousness of missing children and now centers on whether a chilling confession was true. 
Its a cautionary tale, a defining moment, a loss of innocence, Manhattan Assistant District Attorney Joan Illuzzi said as opening statements began. It is Etan who will forever symbolize the loss of that innocence. 
With his father and Hernandezs wife and daughter looking on, the trial began as an echo of the haunting story that unfolded over four months last year  so haunting that about eight of the prior jurors and alternates were in the audience Wednesday to watch. 
Prosecutors say Hernandez, 55, hid a brutal secret for more than 30 years. His attorneys say hes mentally ill and falsely confessed to waylaying and killing Etan, 6, as he walked to his school bus stop on May 25, 1979. It was the first day his mother granted his wish to make the two-block walk by himself. 
Rubio warns against touting Wikileaks  Donald Trumps campaign sees new disclosures about the inner workings of Hillary Clintons campaign by WikiLeaks as a political gold mine. But Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., is warning fellow Republicans not to celebrate the trove of hacked emails from a top campaign official. 
As our intelligence agencies have said, these leaks are an effort by a foreign government to interfere with our electoral process and I will not indulge it, Rubio said in a statement to ABC News. Further, I want to warn my fellow Republicans who may want to capitalize politically on these leaks: Today it is the Democrats. Tomorrow it could be us. 
The Clinton campaign has declined to verify that the contents of the emails are accurate, and warned that the contents could be manipulated for political reasons. 
Nancy Pelosi: Trumps voter fraud claims irresponsible  House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., 
said Donald Trumps unsubstantiated charges of voter fraud were irresponsible and called on Republican congressional leaders to join her in condemning them. 
Peolosi told a Capitol Hill news conference that she hoped Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., and House Speaker Paul D. Ryan, R-Wis., will join us in saying that we have confidence in our system and that we always respect the results of the election. 
Congressional Democrats have sought to tie Republicans lawmakers to the GOP nominee all year with mixed success. 
McConnell and Ryan have largely avoided mentioning Trump this month as his campaign has struggled with falling poll numbers and the fallout of a 2005 recording in which he boasted about groping women, which he later dismissed as locker room banter. 
Ivanka Trump says her father will accept election outcome  Ivanka Trump said Wednesday that she believes her father, GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump, would accept the results of the election. 
Hell either win or he wont win, and I believe hell accept the outcome either way, Trump said at a womens summit in California. She made the remarks as her father has increasingly been saying the election is rigged as he has slipped in the polls, leading to fear among politicians of both parties that he was trying to delegitimize the election before it happened. 
Sanders camp says movement wont shut down Nov. 9  The presidential campaign of Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., excited progressives as it aggravated the Democratic establishment. And Jeff Weaver, Sanders campaign manager, fought the fight as hard as anyone. 
While the Vermont independent came up short, the Democratic Partys platform moved to the left and its presidential nomineem, Hillary Clinton, is supporting some of his policies. Roll Call spoke with Weaver about the campaign and the future of the movement. 
Assange at odds with Ecuador as country warms to U.S.  WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange is finding himself in open conflict with his Ecuadorean protectors as the groups latest dump targeting Hillary Clintons presidential campaign runs afoul of the South American governments goal of warming up to Washington. 
Ecuadors move to cut off his internet access at its embassy in London was a stinging rebuke from leftist President Rafael Correa, who in 2012 heralded Assange as a digital-age Robin Hood and granted him asylum over protests from the United States, the United Kingdom and Sweden, where he faces allegations of rape. 
Analysts say Correa is unlikely to now kick Assange out into the streets of London where he faces certain arrest. But allowing him to keep leaking secrets from the embassy risks putting the small Andean 
nation unwittingly on Russias side of a brewing cyber-battle with the United States, Ecuadors top trade partner, at a time of deep economic stress. 
Ex-teacher slashes throat in court  A man slashed his throat Wednesday, apparently with a razor, moments after jurors found him guilty of sexually assaulting a teenager in Huntington Beach, Calif. Jeffrey Scott Jones, 56, of Huntington Beach, was rushed to a hospital with non-life threatening injuries. The incident happened in the Orange County Superior Court building, authorities said. 
Jones, who taught Advanced Placement English classes at the Libra Academy in Huntington Park, was accused of molesting and having sex with a teenage relative of his live-in girlfriend in 2012 and 2013. 
Agency apologizes for abortion suggestion  A South Carolina agency said Wednesday that it erred in suggesting married women get their husbands permission to get an abortion. That is among proposed changes to abortion clinic regulations that the states health agency put out last month for public comment. Abortion rights advocates called them extreme and politically driven. 
The agency then issued an oops. 
It was a mistake to suggest a married woman, if living with her husband, get his signed consent to have an abortion at a clinic, the agency said. The agency is also dropping a proposal to require, instead of offer, certain tests including a Pap smear and tests for sexually transmitted diseases. Planned Parenthood regional spokeswoman Vicki Ringer said mandatory tests for syphilis, gonorrhea and chlamydia would be a barrier intended to shame women. 
Zika test urged in Florida county  The government recommended on Wednesday Zika testing for all pregnant women who recently spent time anywhere in Floridas Miami-Dade County. Testing is recommended for pregnant women who lived in  or visited  Miami-Dade since August 1, whether or not they have symptoms. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Fromnews services, 'Nationbriefs', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 20 Oct 2016 A10 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160237D1F83B3BB0 
