Democrats across nation sue GOP alleging voter intimidation 
November 5, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author: JOSH CORNFIELD and DAVID PORTER Associated Press 
Section: News 
538 Words 
Page: A11 
OpenURL 
Link 
NEWARK, N.J.  Attorneys for Democrats around the country are filing lawsuits claiming Republicans and the campaign of GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump are pushing supporters to intimidate and confront voters on Election Day. 
Trump has called on supporters to act as election observers to help prevent fraud. 
NEW JERSEY 
The case relates to a consent decree in place since 1982 regulating what the Republican National Committee can do when it comes to ballot security. 
The consent decree was created after Democrats alleged that the RNC helped intimidate black voters during New Jerseys 1981 gubernatorial election. The RNC and New Jerseys Republican Party allegedly had off-duty law enforcement officers at polling places, some with guns. 
The RNC admitted no wrongdoing but agreed to the decree to settle the case. The decree is scheduled to end next year. The Democratic National Committee wants it extended but needs to convince a judge that the RNC has violated the rules. 
Joshua Kaul, an attorney representing the Democratic National Committee, told the judge in Newark, N.J., on Friday that Trump has repeatedly encouraged his supporters to engage in vigilante efforts in the guise of ferreting out voter fraud. 
Bobby Burchfield, an attorney for Republicans, told the judge that volunteers were engaging in normal poll-watching. 
Judge John Michael Vazquez did not rule. 
OHIO 
U.S. District Judge James Gwin ruled Friday in a lawsuit filed by the Ohio Democratic Party that anyone who engages in intimidation or harassment inside or near Ohio polling places would face contempt of court charges. Gwin dismissed the Ohio Republican Party as a defendant. 
The Ohio Democratic Party claimed in its suit that the Ohio GOP, the Trump campaign and operative Roger Stone and political action committee Stop the Steal were conspiring to suppress minorities in 
urban areas from casting ballots Tuesday. 
Later, an attorney for Trump filed a notice to appeal the decision to the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati. NEVADA A judge in Las Vegas on Thursday said he hadnt seen evidence that Trumps campaign was training 
people to intimidate voters. U.S. District Judge Richard Boulware said he didnt expect to issue a restraining order that Democrats sought. 
ARIZONA In Phoenix on Thursday, Stones attorney said Democrats had not produced evidence that his client or Stop the Steal was intimidating voters. 
The chairman of the Arizona Republican Party testified that the party helped train certified poll watchers . Chairman Robert Graham acknowledged that they were encouraged to follow those they suspect of illegally dropping off ballots out of the polling place. 
The attorney for Arizona Democrats, Mike Gottlieb, wants the tactics blocked. MICHIGAN The Michigan Democratic Party filed a lawsuit Friday in Detroit federal court, seeking an injunction 
against Republicans, Trump's presidential campaign and GOP allies. The court filing lists no specific allegations in Michigan, but Democrats say voters are at risk for "intimidation, threats and perhaps even force" on Tuesday. 
GOP spokeswoman Sarah Anderson called the lawsuit "insulting and shameful." VOTERS PURGED A federal judge on Friday ordered local elections boards in North Carolina to restore voters to the rolls 
after they were purged too close to Election Day. 
U.S. District Judge Loretta Biggs ruled on NAACP allegations that at least three counties purged voter rolls through a process disproportionately targeting blacks. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
JOSH CORNFIELD and DAVID PORTER; Associated Press, 'Democrats across nation sue GOP alleging voter intimidation', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 5 Nov 2016 A11 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1607D96D69F05BD0 
