Alton election judge charged for allegedly casting ballot for dead husband 
November 5, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) Author: Associated Press 
Section: News 
263 Words Page: A6 
OpenURL 
Link 
EDWARDSVILLE, Ill.  An election judge from Alton was charged Friday with voter fraud for allegedly sending in an absentee ballot in her late husbands name. 
Audrey Cook, 88, said in a telephone interview that she filled out the ballot for her husband after he died in September because she knew he would want Donald Trump to be president. Cook said she and her husband, Vic, applied for absentee ballots this past summer and she received them days after he died. 
I was just so distraught when this came and I just voted because I knew he wanted to live so badly to see Trump straighten out this stinking mess, she said tearfully. 
Cook is charged with two felony election-fraud counts. 
Madison County States Attorney Tom Gibbons told the Belleville News-Democrat that Cook would be removed as an election judge. 
Gibbons said absentee ballots say submitting a ballot on behalf of someone else constitutes perjury. The county clerks office carefully examines every absentee ballot at multiple levels, including checking the names against the death records, he said. The ballot was never even opened because a clerk found it had been submitted in the name of a deceased person, Gibbons said. 
The prosecutors office said Cook would be allowed to turn herself in. A judge has set bail at $20,000. Each count carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison. Cook said she didnt yet have an attorney. 
Election judges must declare party affiliation, and both Democrats and Republicans process the ballots together in the presence of any authorized poll watchers from campaigns, Madison County Clerk Debra Ming-Mendoza said. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Associated Press, 'Alton election judge charged for allegedly casting ballot for dead husband', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 5 Nov 2016 A6 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1607D96EF29A4110 
