Off his message again:Trump vows to sue all female accusers 
October 23, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author:JOSHLEDERMANandJILLCOLVINAssociatedPress 
Section:News 
956Words 
Page: A7 
OpenURL 
Link 
GETTYSBURG, Pa.  Donald Trump vowed Saturday to sue every woman who has accused him of sexual assault or other inappropriate behavior. He called them liars and blamed Democrats for orchestrating their allegations. 
Trumps blunt threat of legal action eclipsed his planned focus on policy during a speech in Gettysburg. Though his campaign had billed the speech as a chance for Trump to lay out a to-do list for his first 100 days as president, he instead relitigated grievances with Hillary Clinton, the media and especially the women who have come forward in recent days. 
All of these liars will be sued once the election is over, Trump said. He added later: I look so forward to doing that. 
Ten women have publicly accused Trump of unwanted advances or sexual assault in the weeks since a 2005 recording emerged in which the former reality TV star boasted of kissing women and groping their genitals without their consent. Trump has denied all allegations while insisting some of the women werent attractive enough for him to want to pursue. 
Every woman lied when they came forward to hurt my campaign, he said. Without offering evidence, he surmised that Clinton or the Democratic National Committee had put the women up to it. 
Clintons campaign said it was a troubling insight into a potential Trump presidency. Clinton spokeswoman Christina Reynolds called the speech rambling and unfocused. 
Trumps broadside against the women came at the start of a speech that sought to weave the many policy ideas he has put forward into a single, cohesive agenda that he said he would pursue aggressively during his first three months in office. 
The Republican nominee vowed to lift restrictions on domestic energy production, label China as a currency manipulator and renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement, familiar themes to supporters who have flocked to his rallies this year. 
This is my pledge to you, and if we follow these steps, we will once again have a government of, by and for the people, Trump said, invoking a phrase from President Abraham Lincolns Gettysburg Address. 
Though mostly a rehash of policies hes proposed before, Trumps speech included a few new elements, such as a freeze on hiring new federal workers and a two-year mandatory minimum sentence for 
immigrants who re-enter the U.S. illegally after being deported a first time. 
Translating his proposals into digestible bullet points, he offered to-the-point titles for the legislative vehicles hed need Congress to approve to accomplish his goals, such as the End Illegal Immigration Act and the Repeal and Replace Obamacare Act. 
Throughout the GOP primary, Trump was criticized for shying away from detailed policy proposals. But his speech, which aides said would form the core of his closing argument to voters, underscored how the billionaire has gradually compiled a broad  if sometimes vague  policy portfolio that straddles conservative, isolationist and populist orthodoxies. 
Yet any headway that Trump may have made was likely to be diluted by his legal threats against his accusers, just the latest example of Trump stepping on his intended message at inopportune moments. Days earlier, during the final debate, his otherwise well-received performance was marred by an alarming statement that he might not accept the outcome of the election if he loses. 
Later Saturday, huge crowds at a Cleveland arena and an outdoor rally in Virginia Beach greeted Trump as he visited the battleground states of Ohio and Virginia. 
Trumps claim that the system is rigged was a prominent feature of all his speeches on Saturday. 
Speaking in the evening at the I-X Center in Cleveland, the Republican presidential nominee alleged that the election could be influenced by widespread voter fraud. 
Election officials and academics who study elections insist he is wrong. 
With the debates now over, Trump and Clinton have few apparent opportunities to alter the course of the race substantially  a reality that benefits Clinton more than Trump. The Republican is trailing his opponent in most of the battleground states while Clinton eyes potential victories in states such as Arizona, Georgia and Utah that are traditionally safe GOP territory. 
During Trumps struggles, Clinton has been displaying growing confidence, while making direct appeals to voters who may be reconsidering their support for Trump following the sexual assault allegations. 
I know you may still have questions for me, Clinton said Friday in Cleveland. I respect that. I want to answer them. I want to earn your vote. 
Her campaign headquarters in New York was back up and running after a scare over an envelope that arrived containing a white powdery substance. Initial tests showed the substance wasnt harmful. 
More than 4.4 million votes have already been cast. Data compiled by The Associated Press found that Clinton appeared to be displaying strength in North Carolina and Florida, while Trump appeared to be 
holding ground in Ohio, Iowa and Georgia. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
JOSHLEDERMANandJILLCOLVIN;AssociatedPress, 'Offhis message again:Trumpvows to sue all female accusers', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 23 Oct 2016 A7 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16033798D76067D0 
