Nation briefs:San Francisco's 'leaning tower' hit with violation notices 
October 30, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) Author:Fromnews services 
Section:News 
642Words 
Page: A14 
OpenURL 
Link 
Iowa woman blames rigged polls for voting twice 
A woman in Iowa was arrested this week on suspicion of voting twice in the general election, court and police records show. 
Terri Lynn Rote, 55, of Des Moines, was booked Thursday on a first-degree charge of election misconduct, according to Polk County Jail records. The charge is considered a Class D felony under Iowa state law. 
Rote was released Friday after posting $5,000 bail. A preliminary hearing is scheduled for Nov. 7. 
The Des Moines Register reported that Rote is a registered Republican who cast two ballots in the election. 
Rote told Iowa Public Radio that she had cast her first ballot for Donald Trump but feared it would be changed to a vote for Hillary Clinton. 
I wasnt planning on doing it twice  it was spur-of-the-moment, Rote told the radio station. The polls are rigged. 
Polk County Auditor Jamie Fitzgerald told the Register that it was the first time in 12 years he could remember having to report potential voter fraud. 
Repairs to leaning tower not authorized  A 58-story luxury condominium that has gained notoriety as the leaning tower of San Francisco was hit with two violation notices accusing owners of making unauthorized repairs, a newspaper reported on Saturday. 
The repairs to ramps and the garage were intended to address sinking problems, but city building inspectors found they were done without permits. 
The tower has sunk 16 inches since it was completed seven years ago. Its not, however, sinking evenly, creating a tilt. 
Ignorance cited in Trail of Tears banner  An Ohio high school Saturday blamed ignorance as it apologized for a banner displayed at a prep football game recalling the countrys brutal treatment of 
Native Americans. 
News organizations reported that some Greenfield-McClain High School cheerleaders held up the banner at a game Friday night against the Hillsboro High Indians. It read: Hey Indians, Get Ready for a Trail of Tears Part 2. The reference was to the 19th-century forced relocation of Indians. Thousands died of starvation, illness or exposure. 
A horrific mistake was made, Greenfield-McClain High School said in a statement. A sign was created out of ignorance, not hate. 
Video shows Uber driver with unconscious passenger  Police say an Uber driver is facing kidnapping and assault charges after taking an unconscious female passenger to a Maryland hotel. 
Prince Georges County Police Uber driver Westagne Pierre picked up a female passenger at a bar in the District of Columbia and took her to a hotel 10 miles northeast in College Park instead of dropping her off at home in Virginia. 
The Washington Post reports that charging documents say Pierre can be seen on surveillance video carrying the unconscious woman to a room. Police say Pierre also used her credit card. 
An attorney for Pierre said his client denied there was a lack of consent. 
Engine failure confirmed in Chicago plane fire  Engine pieces from an American Airlines plane that caught fire Friday on a runway at Chicagos OHare airport were found thousands of feet away, a federal investigator said. 
Lorenda Ward, a National Transportation Safety Board senior investigator, confirmed Saturday that the fire was caused by engine failure. 
She says the fire started in a pool of fuel under the wing of the Boeing 767. 
Pilots aborted the takeoff of American Airlines Flight 383 to Miami. All 161 passengers and nine crew safely evacuated. Twenty people were taken to the hospital with injuries, officials said. They had all been released by late Saturday, Ward said. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Fromnews services, 'Nationbriefs:SanFrancisco's 'leaning tower' hitwithviolationnotices', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 30 Oct 2016 A14 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16058512037E0330 
