Clintons email server problems resurface 
October 18, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) Author: LISA LERER and KATHLEEN HENNESSEY Associated Press 
Associated Press 
reporters Michael Biesecker and Eric Tucker contributed to this report. Section: News 1218 Words 
Page: A1 
OpenURL 
Link 
Washington  A senior State Department official asked the FBI last year to help reduce the classification of an email from Hillary Clintons private server, according to FBI investigative files made public Monday. It was to be part of a bargain that would have allowed the FBI to deploy more agents in foreign countries, according to the files. 
It was not clear whether the State Department official or someone at the FBI first raised the prospect of a bargain over the emails classification. 
The bureau records, citing an FBI official whose name was censored, said Undersecretary for Management Patrick F. Kennedy sought assistance in exchange for a quid pro quo. 
But the FBI said Monday it was the now-retired FBI official who first asked Kennedy about deploying more agents overseas. The State Department said the same. 
This allegation is inaccurate and does not align with the facts, State Department spokesman Mark Toner said Monday. He said Kennedy had been trying to understand the FBIs classification decisions, and added that there was never an increase in the number of FBI agents assigned to Iraq as a result of conversations. 
The news was the latest twist in a controversy that has dogged Clintons presidential campaign but has often been drowned out by GOP rival Donald Trumps erratic campaign, provocative claims and caughton-tape scandalous sexual comments. 
Clintons email use is certain to return as an issue in the third and final debate between the candidate and Trump on Wednesday in Las Vegas. 
COVER-UP ALLEGED 
Republicans seized on the report as collusion within President Barack Obama's administration to protect Clinton, the Democratic nominee. 
"CORRUPTION CONFIRMED: FBI confirms State Dept. offered 'quid pro quo' to cover up classified emails," read a tweet from Team Trump, retweeted by the candidate. 
Clinton spokesman Brian Fallon said the campaign had never been part of any such discussion about 
email classifications, and there was no indication from the FBI documents that she was aware of the discussion. 
The FBI ultimately rejected the "quid pro quo" idea, which would have allowed the State Department to archive a message related to the 2012 attacks on the U.S. diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, in the basement of its Washington headquarters "never to be seen again," according to the FBI files. 
The email described reports in November 2012 that Libyan police were arresting suspects in the attack. It had been forwarded to Clinton's private email address by Jake Sullivan, one of her top aides and the department's director of policy planning, who was using his government email account. 
Kennedy, the State Department official involved, was a close aide to Clinton during her tenure as the nation's top diplomat between 2009 and early 2013. He had served in his position since November 2007 under President George W. Bush. 
According to FBI records, a bureau official said Kennedy "asked his assistance in altering the email's classification in exchange for a 'quid pro quo,'" and that in exchange, "State would reciprocate by allowing the FBI to place more agents in countries where they are presently forbidden." 
"Although there was never a quid pro quo, these allegations were nonetheless referred to the appropriate officials for review," the FBI said in a statement Monday. 
The disclosure was included in 100 pages the FBI released from its now-closed investigation into whether the former secretary of state and aides mishandled sensitive government information that flowed through the private mail server in her New York home. 
'B9' OR 'B7'? 
According to the account in the FBI records, Kennedy proposed using an obscure provision under the 
U.S. Freedom of Information Act to keep the existence of the classified document from becoming public. By labeling the email unclassified but exempt under the federal records law, the State Department would have avoided criticism that its employees had mishandled classified files but still would have prevented the email's public release. 
The provision cited in the FBI files, known as "B9," is intended to protect geological and geophysical information and data concerning wells and is the most rarely used FOIA exemption. 
The FBI official said that after learning later that the information in question concerned the Benghazi attacks, he contacted Kennedy and told him there was "no way he could assist" with declassifying. 
Toner suggested that Kennedy may not have raised the "B9" exemption at all, but rather "B7" -a separate exemption protecting confidential communications with law enforcement. Toner said that 
exemption could have still allowed parts of the document to be released. 
Toner also denied there was any proposed deal, saying the FBI official first raised the number of bureau personnel approved to be in Iraq at the end of the phone call as a separate issue. 
As for the FBI official's account, he said, "I can't speak to what this person's intent, whether they misunderstood the atmosphere of that conversation, I have no idea. All I can say is that there was no quid pro quo." 
The Associated Press reported the existence of the secret Benghazi-related email in May 2015, though the classified content has never been made public. 
At the time, administration officials acknowledged interagency disagreements about whether some information was classified. 
'CRIMINAL ACT' 
House Republicans said Monday the reports of behind-the-scenes maneuvering with the FBI were "extremely disturbing." 
Trump said Monday at a rowdy event in Wisconsin that the FBI records reveal "a criminal act" that is worse than Watergate. 
The crowd at the Green Bay rally broke into chants of "Paul Ryan sucks!" before Trump took the stage. 
Ryan, the Republican House speaker who represents part of Wisconsin, has been critical of his party's nominee, saying he plans to spend his time campaigning for Republican congressional candidates and not Trump. The hostility between the pair underscores Trump's toxic relationship with many members of his own party. 
At the appearance, the GOP nominee also repeated his assertion, without evidence, that voter fraud poses a significant threat to the integrity of the U.S. electoral system. He told supporters that the Nov. 8 election could be rigged "at the polling booths" despite experts' insistence to the contrary. 
Trump pointed to isolated reports of dead people voting, and claimed that a significant number of people living in the country illegally are registered to vote. 
CLINTON BRANCHES OUT 
Despite the FBI revelations that came out Monday, Clinton was expanding her campaign into states Democrats havent won in decades. 
First lady Michelle Obama, one of Clintons most effective surrogates, is making Clintons case in Phoenix on Thursday, while the campaign puts an additional $2 million in ads, direct mail and digital spots to help Arizona Democrats in competitive races for the House and Senate. Clintons team is also putting a combined $1 million into efforts in Missouri and Indiana, and expanding operations by $6 million in seven states, according to campaign manager Robby Mook. 
With her lead in opinion polls increasing, Clinton might seem unlikely to need any of the normally solid-Republican states to win the White House. But her team believes that a wide margin of victory would undermine his claims that the election is rigged. 
Clinton spent Monday with advisers near her home in New York, preparing for the debate. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
LISALERERandKATHLEENHENNESSEY;AssociatedPress;AssociatedPress reporters Michael Biesecker and Eric Tucker contributed to this report., 'Clintons email server problems resurface', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 18 Oct 2016 A1 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1601921764469F00 
