Wyoming voters would be required to show ID under proposed bill 
January 25, 2017 | Billings Gazette, The (MT) 
Author: Arno Rosenfeld arno.rosenfeld@trib.com 
Section: Wyoming 
612 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
CHEYENNE  As Republican legislatures across the country pass various restrictions on voting, 
Wyoming remains one of the easiest states in which to cast a ballot. Residents do not need to provide identification when they go to the polls, and they can even register to vote on the day of the election. 
But House Bill 167, filed at the Wyoming Legislature last week, would change that by requiring people to 
show photo identification when they go to vote. The measure is sponsored by Rep. Lars Lone, R-Cheyenne, who said that during the general election in November he was not asked for photo identification. 
"I was given a ballot for (House) District 44, and I'm in 12," he said. A photo ID would eliminate such mistakes, because a person's address would be on the ID, he said. "There's no consistency among our districts when we go to the polls," he said. Lone said his Filipino-American wife, a naturalized citizen, was asked for a photo ID when she voted. "She's Asian, I'm white," he said. "She showed her ID. I didn't. I got the wrong ballot. But she got the right 
one." 
The Wyoming Secretary of State's office had announced before the election that some recent citizens would have to present proof of citizenship due to problems with a database. At the time, the left-leaning Equality State Policy Center and the American Civil Liberties Union called that 
requirement discriminatory and unconstitutional. 
In an email, Wyoming Secretary of State spokesman Will Dinneen said that voter fraud in the state is "remarkably rare." "Our office; all 23 county clerks and their trained election judges and poll works; and the laws of the State 
of Wyoming work in conjunction to safeguard Wyoming's Election process," Dinneen said. 
Lone said he didn't know of any instances in Wyoming in which people fraudulently voted. But he said he 
could have if he didn't correct the poll workers about receiving the wrong ballot. ACLU Wyoming policy director Sabrina King said the organization opposed the photo ID voting requirement. 
"It's not something that's needed in Wyoming," King said. She noted voters are already required to show identification in order to register to vote. Nationwide, between 4 and 5 percent of voters do not have a government-issued photo ID, and the 
percentage was likely higher in the Cowboy State, King said. "The unfortunate thing is we don't know for sure how many people this disenfranchises," she said. "We just know that it would, and with no reason, no evidence that having a photo ID would make our 
system better, you're putting forward a bill that would make it harder to vote." 
King added that if Lone's claim that different counties currently handled voter identification differently was true, then that meant some counties were illegally requiring voters to show identification and should stop. "If there are issues of giving people the wrong ballot, this bill would do nothing to stop that," King said. Wind River Native Advocacy Center director Jason Baldes said he was concerned that the bill would 
make it harder for tribal members to vote. 
He said more reservation residents had tribal identification than Wyoming driver's licenses and that government officials have been reluctant to accept the tribal ID in the past. "You see an ID and it's foreign to you and you've never seen it, you're more inclined to reject it if it's not 
(from) the state of Wyoming," Baldes said. 
House Bill 167 does not specify what forms of identification would be accepted for voting other than "a current, valid photo identification." The current voting law states that "Unless a voter is challenged... no identification shall be required." The bill was sent to the House Corporations, Elections and Political Subdivisions committee last 
Thursday. 
Copyright (c) 2017 The Billings Gazette 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Arno Rosenfeld arno.rosenfeld@trib.com, 'Wyoming voters would be required to show ID under proposed bill', Billings Gazette, The (online), 25 Jan 2017 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/162294EE6A3B5338 
