
Trump allies planning to monitor voting places and conduct exit polling
Newspaper October 30, 2016 | Omaha World-Herald: Web Edition Articles (NE)
Author: MCCLATCHY WASHINGTON BUREAU Section: Sunrise 573 Words
Trump allies planning to monitor voting places and conduct exit polling
WASHINGTON — Media reports of possible voter-suppression activity involving groups that support Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump have swelled concerns about widespread voter intimidation in the November general election.

Trump has repeatedly excited his base with accusations about a "rigged" election, and he has claimed that reporters and Democratic political operatives are in cahoots against him.

On Thursday, Bloomberg News quoted a senior campaign official from "inside the Trump bunker" as saying, "We have three major voter suppression operations underway" to discourage voting among three Democratic-leaning groups: "white liberals," young women and African-Americans.

The report came amid other recent revelations of grass-roots volunteers orchestrating exit polling and monitoring at polling places in major cities and swing states nationwide.

One such plan comes from Trump ally Roger Stone's group, Stop the Steal, a tax-exempt political organization that promoted claims that Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton is trying to "cheat" or rig November's election.

The Guardian media company reported last week that Stop the Steal will be active across the country on Election Day. Stone told the Guardian that nearly 1,300 people — all volunteers from Citizens for Trump — will do exit polling in cities like Detroit, Cleveland, Las Vegas and Charlotte, North Carolina.

Stone, a longtime Republican political consultant and well known strategist, could not be reached for comment.

Earlier last week the Huffington Post reported on a widespread volunteer effort by Trump supporters known as "Vote Protectors" that would send volunteers to ask voters about "election fraud" as they exited polling places.

Vote Protectors has given its volunteers a script and advised them to act as "citizen journalists," according to the Huffington Post. The group has said it will simply conduct exit polling, not harass voters.

Vote Protectors bills itself as an anti-voter-fraud group. But the Huffington Post reported that the group would issue fake ID badges to the volunteer pollsters, a tactic that has been used in the past to intimidate voters.

This "external observation" of polling places "by free-floating people who are kind of playing by their own rules" can lead to confusion and confrontation, said Logan Churchwell, communications director for True the Vote, a conservative voter rights organization that trains poll watchers.

"If anyone is running around in an unofficial capacity with a fake badge or anything like that, that is not our organizing strategy. We don't condone it. We don't train people to do it. We don't even give hypotheticals in how you could do it.

"There's so many ways it can go wrong and be counterproductive. Even if you're doing the right thing, you're still technically going to be doing the wrong thing," Churchwell said.

The specter of untrained, partisan polling place observers inspired by Trump's race-baiting rhetoric has caused concern among minority voters, who've been frequent targets of voter intimidation in the past.

"We are concerned that this year is going to be the worst year ever when it comes to voter suppression at the polls for Arab-Americans, Muslim Americans and those perceived to be either Arab or Muslims," said Samer Khalaf, the president of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee.

Khalaf said calls for people to "protect the integrity" of the vote often lead to trouble.

"Our fear is that people are going to heed this call," Khalaf said last week in a conference call with reporters. "They're going to go out to those areas that are predominantly Arab or Muslim and disrupt the vote," through intimidation outside the polls and unfounded voter challenges, he said.
Copyright, 2016, Omaha World-Herald. All Rights Reserved.
