
Officials dismiss possibility of a rigged election
Newspaper October 21, 2016 | Omaha World-Herald: Web Edition Articles (NE)
Author: THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE Section: Sunrise 793 Words
Officials dismiss possibility of a rigged election
VOTING FRAUD

CHICAGO — Claims from Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump that voting is rigged to help Democratic rival Hillary Clinton on Nov. 8 have served to dredge up Chicago's controversial history of vote stuffing, ballot boxes floating in the river and dead people voting.

But state and city elections officials contend that the massive voting fraud of the past is history, citing new technology and changes in voting laws that have made the potential for fraud a fraction of what existed in the past.

Election officials nationwide dismiss Trump's incendiary claim, with Republicans and Democrats alike rejecting the idea anyone could overcome the logistical challenges of tilting a process run by officials of both parties and average citizens at thousands of polling places and election offices.

Elections are held in open spaces, not in back rooms, and ordinary citizens serve as election officials. They are not public officials who might report to a candidate on the ballot. In many states, the workers, who receive training before Election Day, are drawn evenly from supporters of both parties.

New York-based election lawyer Jerry Goldfeder says more than 3,000 counties regulate elections and notes that each state has its own election laws, even for president.

"This decentralized process makes it next to impossible for anyone to change the results of the election, whether it's a foreign power or a political party," he said.

Poll workers and election officials are empowered to flag any voting irregularity. Both candidates usually have scores of lawyers on call to challenge any suspect ballot or behavior. Ballots are tabulated in public spaces.

"Our election system today is more secure than it's ever been," said Jon Husted, secretary of state in Ohio. A Republican who has said he will vote for Trump, Husted said that "to assert an election is rigged without evidence is irresponsible."

Any anti-Trump conspiracy would also probably need to involve members of his own party. Top election officials in 29 states are Republicans, including in battlegrounds such as Florida, North Carolina and Nevada.

Jim Allen, spokesman for the Chicago Board of Election Commissioners, said: "We don't claim perfection. We know we're trying to live down the history of this agency from our parents' and our grandparents' generations."

Trump raised the issue earlier this week during a stop in Colorado, responding to recent media reports that voter fraud is not as rampant of a problem as he has said.

"Take a look at St. Louis. Take a look at Philadelphia. Take a look at Chicago," Trump said.

Those remarks came after prominent Trump surrogate Rudy Giuliani, the former New York mayor, also fanned the fraud flames.

"If you want me to tell you that I think the election in Philadelphia and Chicago is going to be fair, I would have to be a moron to say that. I mean, I would have to dislearn everything I learned in 40 years of being a prosecutor," he said.

After the 1982 Illinois general election, authorities found massive fraud involving vote buying and ballots cast by others in the names of registered voters. In one case, a ballot punched for the Democratic slate had been tabulated 198 times.

But Allen said the city board's use of electronic poll books at polling places blocks "the prospect of double voting," and the electronic connections between early voting sites make it "impossible" to vote more than once.

Trump first claimed the election could be rigged in August and he has returned to that theme. He suggested in the final debate that a lack of confidence in the process has prevented him from guaranteeing that he would honor its result.

Thursday, he told a rally in Delaware, Ohio, "I would accept a clear election result, but I would also reserve my right to contest or file a legal challenge in the case of a questionable result."

But he opened the rally by playing off the uncertainty created by his debate comments.

"I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election — if I win," Trump said with a smirk.

There is no proof that voter fraud is a widespread problem in the United States. A study by a Loyola Law School professor found that out of 1 billion votes cast in all American elections between 2000 and 2014, there were only 31 known cases of impersonation fraud.

Campaigning in Indiana on behalf of GOP Rep. Todd Young, Sen. Joni Ernst of Iowa said she could not speak for Trump, but: "I hope that the election is fair, I don't want to make any accusatory statements out there and I hope that if it is fair, that we accept that."

According to Politico, a spokeswoman later clarified that Ernst "believes that while we must always protect against voter fraud, there is no evidence of any effort to rig this election."

This report includes material from the Associated Press, Bloomberg News and the Los Angeles Times.
Copyright, 2016, Omaha World-Herald. All Rights Reserved.
