
WEDNESDAY'S DEVELOPMENTS
Newspaper January 26, 2017 | Omaha World-Herald: Web Edition Articles (NE)
Author: — WorldHerald press services Section: Sunrise 486 Words
WEDNESDAY'S DEVELOPMENTS
Trump apparently ready to stop accepting Syrian refugees

WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump has shown few signs of letting up on his vow to dramatically limit the flow of people from other nations. In addition to his orders on domestic immigration enforcement and border security, a draft executive order obtained by the Associated Press shows that Trump intends to stop accepting Syrian refugees and suspend the broader refugee program for 120 days.

The president also plans to suspend issuing visas for people from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria or Yemen for at least 30 days, according to the draft.

Late in the day, Mexico's president said that he rejected the decision to build the border wall and repeated that his country would not pay for it.

President Enrique Peña Nieto did not address reports that he was considering" canceling next week's visit to Washington.

Funds for border wall

House Speaker Paul Ryan, speaking in Philadelphia at the congressional Republicans' annual policy retreat, said Congress will work to come up with $8 billion to $14 billion for the Southern border wall announced earlier in the day by Trump.

Trump and Vice President Mike Pence were to address the GOP gathering today, as will British Prime Minister Theresa May, in a first for a foreign head of state.

Voter fraud probe planned

Trump declared that he is ordering a "major investigation" into widespread voter fraud, raising the prospect of a federal government probe into a widely debunked claim.

The White House provided few details on what the probe may entail. All 50 states and the District of Columbia have finalized their election results with no reports of the kind of widespread fraud that Trump alleges.

U.N. funds on the block?

The Trump administration is proposing a 40 percent reduction in voluntary U.S. support for the United Nations and other global bodies and an end to spending that does not serve U.S. interests, according to a draft of a forthcoming order. A White House spokesman declined to comment.

The directive would launch a one-year review of U.S. support for international organizations and offer recommendations for ways to reduce mandated U.S. contributions.

Data on 'temporary hold'

The Trump administration is scrutinizing reports or data published by scientists at the Environmental Protection Agency, and new work is under a "temporary hold" before it can be released.

The communications director for Trump's transition team at EPA, Doug Ericksen, said the review extends to all existing content on the agency's website, including details of scientific evidence showing that the Earth's climate is warming and man-made carbon emissions are to blame.

Ericksen clarified earlier statements, which said the administration was mandating that any studies or data from EPA scientists undergo review by political appointees before they can be released to the public.

He said work by the agency's scientists is subject to the same temporary hold as other kinds of public releases. He said the hold would most likely be lifted by Friday.
Copyright, 2017, Omaha World-Herald. All Rights Reserved.
