Jill Stein to sue over Wisconsin rejecting hand recount mandate: Politics Extra
Newspaper November 28, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Section: Open 944 Words
Jill Stein to sue over Wisconsin rejecting hand recount mandate: Politics Extra
Michigan goes to Donald Trump as a potential recount looms. Hillary Clinton's team hits back at Trump. Trump's team brings internal discord to the public. Read more in today's Politics Extra.

Michigan goes to Trump: President-elect Donald Trump has officially won Michigan's 16 electoral votes, although a recount is possible, reports NPR. The Michigan Board of State Canvassers certified Trump as the winner on Monday. The Republican beat Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton by just two tenths of a percent, 47.6 percent to 47.4 percent. That's a margin of just over 10,000 votes, making it the closest presidential election in Michigan's history.

A possible recount looms: Green Party nominee Jill Stein has signaled she plans to ask for a recount in Michigan, and she has until Wednesday to petition. She already petitioned for one in Wisconsin, after raising more than $6.5 million to fund the recounts.

Wisconsin: The Wisconsin Elections Commission set a timetable Monday for a recount of the presidential election but rejected Stein's request, reports USA Today. Stein quickly responded that she would sue.

Pennsylvania: Stein filed a lawsuit in Pennsylvania Monday to force a recount there.

Clinton team hits back at Trump: After Trump claimed Sunday that he "won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally," the remnants of Clinton's old campaign roared to life, reports Politico. "Winning the electoral college won him the presidency, so Trump's excuses on why he lost the popular vote by millions are just small and sad," tweeted Christina Reynolds, who was the Clinton campaign's deputy communications director. Clinton's campaign lawyer, Marc Elias, said, "We are getting attacked for participating in a recount that we didn't ask for by the man who won the election but thinks there was massive fraud." Clinton's national press secretary, Brian Fallon, has pinned a tweet congratulating Trump to the top of his feed, and has said little else since.

And also shrugs off recount effort: "Recounting votes is as American as apple pie. There's nothing wrong with the effort, but it's not somewhere where I would put the political energy of my groups, and I'm not," said David Brock, a Clinton ally whose network of Democratic political firms supported the nominee's White House bid, reports Politico. Brock said top party donors have asked him whether they should contribute to Stein's effort, but he said he was already focused on taking on Trump's administration. "We're focused on watch-dogging the Trump transition."

Was there mass voter fraud in the presidential election? Elections officials in three states disagree with Trump's allegations, reports Politico. "We have heard claims like this in the past, relative to our elections, but we have been provided no evidence that suggests that there is voter fraud on a widespread scale in New Hampshire," said David Scanlan, the state's deputy secretary of state. Virginia Department of Elections Commissioner Edgardo Cortes said, "The claims of voter fraud in Virginia during the Nov. 8 election are unfounded." In California, where Clinton led by about 30 percentage points, Secretary of State Alex Padilla said, "[Trump's] unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud in California and elsewhere are absurd. His reckless tweets are inappropriate and unbecoming of a president-elect."

The problem with Romney: Trump is "irritated" with top aide Kellyanne Conway's public campaign against Mitt Romney's potential nomination as secretary of state, a source told CNN. The source, who is familiar with the discussions, acknowledged the existence of an internal feud between Conway and chief of staff Reince Priebus, specifically about the choice between Romney and former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani for the nation's top diplomatic position.

Other contenders? Trump met Monday with former Gen. David Petraeus as he looks to fill out his Cabinet, reports CNN. Trump will meet Tuesday with Romney as well as Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker and House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul. The meetings, confirmed by Republican National Committee chief strategist Sean Spicer, come as Trump fills key foreign policy posts in his incoming administration. Frances Townsend, a former Homeland Security adviser to then-President George W. Bush, also will meet with Trump.

Drain the swamp: Some of the nation's 4 million or so federal workers are watching anxiously as Trump looks to set his agenda in motion, reports ABC News. Melissa Baumann, for example, lives some 850 miles from the nation's capital, but fears for her job as a chemist with the Forest Service when she hears about how Trump will "drain the swamp." The president-elect has suggested a federal hiring freeze and hinted at eliminating or sharply curtailing an entire Cabinet agency, the Department of Education. Some Trump allies say the sentiment is directed at lobbyists, donors and political cronies, but some federal workers fear he means a broader group. "I believe that is directed at us. And it's misdirected," Baumann said.

Promises, promises: On the campaign trail, Trump made about 282 promises in speeches, public comments, tweets and campaign and transition websites. Read more at The Washington Post.

AP issues guidelines for the term 'alt-right:' In a memo to reporters writing about the "alt-right," John Daniszewski, vice president for Standards at the Associated Press, cautioned journalists to be specific and deliberate when writing about a label that many say is just a euphemism for white nationalism, reports Politico. "Avoid using the term generically and without definition, however, because it is not well known and the term may exist primarily as a public-relations device to make its supporters' actual beliefs less clear and more acceptable to a broader audience," he wrote. "In the past we have called such beliefs racist, neo-Nazi or white supremacist."
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
