Around Ohio - Columbus Dispatch
Newspaper October 23, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The (Cleveland, OH)
Section: News 297 Words
Page: E3
Around Ohio - Columbus Dispatch
Hats off to the Cleveland Indians, who are four wins away from baseball’s world championship after knocking out the Toronto Blue Jays, 3-0, on Wednesday to win the American League pennant.

Unlikely hero Ryan Merritt, who pitched 24 games for the Columbus Clippers this season, started Game 5 and held the Blue Jays’ powerful lineup scoreless for 4 . innings. It was just the second major-league start for the 24-year-old Texas native, a move made necessary by injuries to other pitchers.

Somehow, this beat-up, underrated Tribe is 8-1 in two postseason series, and could join the Cleveland Cavaliers, their basketball brethren, in bringing relief supreme to long-suffering fans. The Indians last played in the World Series in 1997, and last won it in 1948.

City of champions? Whodathunkit?

Cincinnati Enquirer

Donald Trump’s claims of a rigged presidential election aren’t only unprecedented and irresponsible. They are dangerous.

He crossed yet another line during Wednesday’s final debate when he doubled down by refusing to say if he would honor the election results and concede to Hillary Clinton if he lost.

“I will tell you at the time. I will keep you in suspense,” Trump said defiantly.

For a man who says he wants to “make America great again,” he seems to be doing everything in his power to undermine our democracy. Faith in the election system is one of its cornerstones. For it to work, citizens must have confidence in a fair process and believe their votes actually count. Trump is attempting to chip away at that confidence for his own selfish reasons, and certainly not for the good of America.

Trump’s claims of a “rigged election” and “large-scale voter fraud” are ridiculous and untrue. Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted, a Republican who intends to vote for Trump, rejected his accusations as “not based on fact.”
Copyright, 2016, The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
