Trump’s conspiracy theories on Philly voting preposterous
Newspaper October 22, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The (Cleveland, OH)
Author: David Thornburgh Section: News 865 Words
Page: A14
Trump’s conspiracy theories on Philly voting preposterous
Philadelphia —

Donald Trump and

his campaign surrogates

say they believe that a massive conspiracy will be operating in Pennsylvania to “steal this election” for Hillary Clinton on Nov. 8. Specifically, they’re worried about Philadelphia.

“We have to make sure the people of Philadelphia are protected and that the vote counts are 100 percent,” Trump said last week in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. “Everybody wants that, but I hear these horror shows. I hear these horror shows and we have to make sure that this election is not stolen from us and is not taken away from us. And everybody knows what I’m talking about.” His ally Newt Gingrich was even blunter, saying that “to suggest that you don’t have theft in Philadelphia is to deny reality.” Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, predicted that people would be bused to Philadelphia to vote “four or five times” in place of dead voters on the rolls.

I’m the chief executive of the Committee of Seventy, a nonpartisan good-government nonprofit in Philadelphia formed by private-sec-tor leaders in 1904 with a primary mission to protect and improve the voting process. I’ve lived in Philadelphia for more than 30 years. I also happen to be a son of Dick Thornburgh, a former Republican governor of Pennsylvania and U.S. attorney general under Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush. (For the record, I’m a registered independent.)

So I know what I’m talking about when I say that Trump’s charges are preposterous. They have no basis in fact, and they are dangerous and damaging to our democracy.

Take a look at the record

Trump has offered no evidence to support his claims, and it’s hard to beat nothing with something. But even if it won’t persuade him, for the sake of the rest of the country, let me review the reality of voting in Philadelphia.

Like most big cities these days, Philadelphia has an overwhelmingly Democratic electorate, with about eight Democrats for every Republican. It does have an old-fashioned Democratic machine, but it’s pretty creaky. Yes, it still has enough muscle to elect local judges and row officers, and some state legislators, but, more important, it doesn’t need to steal votes to elect Democrats. Democrats win elections by margins here that are among the biggest in the country. In 2012, the 85.2 percent of Philadelphia voters who voted for President Barack Obama was second only to the Bronx’s 91 percent. Philadelphia’s margin even beat Obama’s hometown, Chicago, by a percentage point.

Demographics explain vote totals

On the Trumpiest fringes of the Internet, that Obama margin in 2012 is taken as proof that the conspiracy is real. Four years ago, in 59 voting divisions (Philly-speak for precincts), Republican Mitt Romney won zero votes. But to anyone who knows anything about our city, that isn’t quite as sinister as it might appear. All 59 divisions are in heavily African-American neighborhoods, where finding Republicans is hard even when the nation’s first black president isn’t on the ballot. In any event, those areas, each encompassing just a few city blocks, are only 3 percent of Philadelphia’s 1,686 voting divisions and accounted for only 19,605 of the 690,776 votes cast in the city. As Philadelphia GOP executive director Joe DeFelice told the Philadelphia Inquirer about the Romney shutouts: “I think it’s plausible. I understand the demographics of the area.”

The kind of fraud Trump claims will be going on here would be nearly impossible to pull off. (Voter fraud is virtually nonexistent nationwide, for the same reason.) As the veteran Philadelphia political journalist Tom Ferrick put it in an article on the news site City & State last week: “It would take a massive organizing effort and would yield minimal results.” Say you want to pay impostors to impersonate registered voters. In 2012, Romney would have needed at least 150,000 more votes than he got in Philadelphia to win Pennsylvania’s 20 electoral votes. Ferrick suggests a potential election thief would pay phony voters $20 each (a small reward for a potential felony charge, by the way), which means it would have cost Obama more than $3 million to come up with the winning margin. Could you possibly hide that much money AND also keep 150,000 fake voters quiet?

Could potential fraudsters monkey with voting machines? Actually, in Philadelphia, they are almost a decade and half old, they are not connected to the Internet, and they are constructed in a way that makes it impossible to remove votes from them once they are cast. We are literally protected by their obsolescence.

This is not to say that our election system works flawlessly. In fact, the Committee of Seventy has helped organize a Better Philly Elections coalition of a dozen civic groups to advocate for replacing the politicized and inefficient elected City Commissioners — who oversee voting here — with an appointed election professional and a nonpartisan board of elections.

The real reason Philadelphia produces lopsided results in favor of Democrats is simple: There just aren’t enough Republicans there. To suggest otherwise, as Trump does, undermines the foundations of our democracy.

Thornburgh, president and CEO of the Committee of Seventy, a nonprofit, nonpartisan watchdog organization in

Philadelphia, wrote this for The Washington Post.
Copyright, 2016, The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
