
World and national news briefs for Jan. 4
Newspaper January 3, 2017 | Richmond Times-Dispatch: Web Edition Articles (VA)
Author: Staff Writer Section: Briefs 653 Words

Manson taken from prison to hospital

CORCORAN, Calif. — Mass murderer Charles Manson was taken from a Central Valley prison in California to a hospital for an undisclosed medical issue, two sources familiar with the situation said.

One of the sources said Manson was seriously ill but could not provide specific information. Officials with the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation declined to comment.

TMZ reported Tuesday that Manson was taken to a hospital in Bakersfield, about 60 miles south of the California prison where he has been incarcerated.

Haiti panel certifies election of president

PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti — A businessman from northern Haiti who has never held political office was certified as the winner of the November presidential election Tuesday following a ruling by an electoral tribunal that found no evidence of large-scale voter fraud.

The Provisional Electoral Council published final results showing that Jovenel Moise easily won a first-round victory with more than 55 percent of the votes, the same as the preliminary results that were announced in late November. His nearest challenger, Jude Celestin, had nearly 20 percent.

N.C. school bus driver charged after crash

GASTONIA, N.C. — The North Carolina Highway Patrol said a school bus driver is facing charges after the bus slid off a road and into a ditch before overturning with four students inside.

Gaston County school spokesman Todd Hagans told said none of the students was hurt after the bus overturned around 6:45 a.m. Tuesday near Belmont. The students ranged in age from 8 to 10 years old. The driver and the students escaped the bus through the rear door.

Investigating troopers said Milagros Pena of Charlotte was charged with careless and reckless driving and going too fast for road conditions. Light rain was falling at the time.

26 killed in Yemeni attack on militants

SANAA, Yemen — Pro-government forces attacked al-Qaida militants in southern Yemen on Tuesday, killing 15 jihadis but losing 11 of their own troops, security officials said.

The fighting began when troops backed by a Saudi-led coalition attacked an al-Qaida stronghold in the Marakasha Mountains in Abyan province, east of the southern city of Aden.

The area has long been a militant haven, attracting fighters in the 1990s returning from Afghanistan after fighting the Russians. Al-Qaida later said in a statement circulated online that it had ambushed the troops and fought them off, the U.S.-based SITE Intelligence Group said.

Report criticizes Israeli military prosecutions

JERUSALEM — An Israeli advocacy group on Tuesday criticized what it called an exceptionally low prosecution rate by the Israeli military in cases of violence committed by soldiers against Palestinians.

The report by Yesh Din, a human rights group that is often critical of the Israeli military, came a day before a military court's verdict is to be delivered in a high-profile manslaughter case against a soldier.

Migrant protest ends peacefully in Italy

ROME — Italian police early Tuesday quelled a protest by occupants of a migrant center near Venice that left fearful workers at the center barricaded inside offices.

Paramilitary police in Chioggia, about 45 miles east of the Cona migrant center, said the protest ended peacefully after a few hours.

130 flee Philippine jail after attack by rebels

KIDAPAWAN, Philippines — More than 130 inmates have escaped in one of the largest jailbreaks in recent years after suspected Muslim rebels attacked a jail in the southern Philippines before dawn today, officials said.

The jail warden, Superintendent Peter Bongat, said a guard was killed and an inmate was wounded in a gunbattle when dozens of gunmen stormed the North Cotabato District Jail in Kidapawan. The city is in Cotabato Province.

Law dean at Harvard will return to teaching

CAMBRIDGE, Mass. — The dean of Harvard Law School says she will step down to focus on teaching, scholarship and public engagement.

Martha Minow said Tuesday that she will leave her post at the end of the academic year but remain on the faculty. She has been dean since 2009.

In a statement, Minow said she initially intended to serve only five years.
© Copyright 2017, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
