
State briefs for Sunday, Jan. 15
Newspaper January 15, 2017 | Richmond Times-Dispatch (VA)
Author: From staff and wire reports Section: Metro 480 Words
Page: 4B

State news

Man convicted for creating fake voter applications

ALEXANDRIA - An Alexandria man has been convicted of submitting bogus voter-registration forms while working for a progressive advocacy group.

Thirty-year-old Vafalay Massaquoi pleaded guilty in Alexandria Circuit Court Thursday to a count of election fraud and two counts of forging public records.

He was sentenced to time served plus 500 hours of community service. Commonwealth's Attorney Bryan Porter said Massaquoi spent about 90 days in jail.

Porter said the chances that the bogus applications could have enabled actual voter fraud were minimal because the submitted names were fabricated.

The city's voter registrar discovered the bogus applications and alerted authorities.

Lawmaker wants schools to designate gun carriers

RICHMOND - A Virginia lawmaker wants school boards in the state to designate employees who can carry concealed handguns on school property.

The bill from Republican Del. Robert G. Marshall of Prince William County would require those who carry guns on school grounds to be trained and certified. They would get training either from the state or from the National Rifle Association.

Some gun-rights advocates have argued that school shootings could be prevented if schools had armed personnel who could confront an active shooter.

Marshall has introduced similar legislation unsuccessfully in the past.

August death probe may bring fines to Goodyear

DANVILLE -The state's investigation into last August's workplace death of a Goodyear employee should be completed by the middle of next month.

There could be additional fines and/or citations against Goodyear depending on the outcome of the investigation, said Jennifer Rose, safety director for the Virginia Occupational Safety and Health Program.

Goodyear worker William "Billy" Scheier died in an accident at the Danville Goodyear plant Aug. 12. He died from blunt injuries to the chest and mechanical asphyxiation, according to the Medical Examiner's Office in Roanoke. The death was ruled accidental.

The Goodyear plant was hit with more than $1 million in fines and more than 100 citations as a result of health and safety inspections by the state. Three fatalities happened there in 2016, in addition to the Aug. 31, 2015 death of Jeanie Lynne Strader.

Goodyear is contesting the fines and citations.

Giles shooting leaves man with life-threatening injury

WYTHEVILLE - Police say two sheriff's deputies have been placed on administrative leave after a shooting that left a knife-wielding man with life-threatening injuries in southwest Virginia.

Virginia State Police said the incident happened Thursday after Giles County sheriff's deputies were called to the scene of a home fire.

Police say a firefighter and two deputies encountered a combative man who was armed with a large knife outside the home. They say he refused to drop the weapon and began advancing on the deputies when he was shot.

Police spokeswoman Corinne Geller said both deputies fired their weapons, but it's unclear if both struck the man. Geller said everyone involved is white.

Police say the man suffered life-threatening injuries.

- From staff and wire reports
© Copyright 2017, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
