
Friday PolitiFact National recap of third presidential debate
Newspaper October 20, 2016 | Richmond Times-Dispatch: Web Edition Articles (VA)
Author: LINDA QIU PolitiFact National Section: News 1216 Words

Here are some brief fact checks from Wednesday night's presidential debate between Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump. For more information, go to www.politifact.com.

Trump: "Hillary wants to give amnesty. She wants to have open borders."

While her plan would make it easier for undocumented residents to avoid deportation, she has repeatedly said she supports border security.

In a brief speech expert from 2013, Clinton purportedly says, "My dream is a hemispheric common market, with open trade and open borders, some time in the future with energy that is as green and sustainable."

But we don't have more context about what Clinton meant by "open borders" because she has not released the full speech. Her campaign has said she was talking about clean energy across the hemisphere. We rated Trump's claim Mostly False.

Clinton: "He said as recently as a few weeks ago in Phoenix that every undocumented person would be subject to deportation."

Trump said Aug. 31 that anyone in the country illegally who wants lawful status has to go back home and apply for re-entry, and that those who came illegally are subject to deportation.

But Trump also said "then and only then will we be in a position to consider the appropriate disposition of those individuals who remain." That suggests he doesn't intend to deport literally every undocumented person. We rated Clinton's claim Mostly True.

Trump: "Hillary Clinton wanted the wall. Hillary Clinton fought for the wall in 2006 or thereabouts."

Clinton voted in 2006 for 700 miles of fencing along the U.S.-Mexico border, but not for the taller, longer concrete wall that he vows to build. We rated this claim Half True.

Clinton: "What the District of Columbia was trying to do was to protect toddlers from guns and so they wanted people with guns to safely store them."

Trump criticized Clinton for not agreeing with the District of Columbia v. Heller decision, in which the Supreme Court upheld the individual right to bear arms. Clinton says she supports this decision but her defense of her opposition is Half True.

City leaders did specifically cite the danger posed to children in trying to keep in place gun regulations, but child safety wasn't the sole topic cited by defenders of the city's gun control ordinance. The Heller decision dealt with a much broader issue than protecting toddlers from firearm deaths or injuries.

Trump: "Just like when you ran the State Department, $6 billion was missing. How do you miss $6 billion? You ran the State Department, $6 billion was either stolen. They don't know. It's gone, $6 billion."

Pants on Fire! In March 2014, a State Department Inspector General alert looked at previous audits and warned that files for over $6 billion worth of contracts from 2008 to 2014 — spanning the entirety of Clinton's tenure as secretary of state from 2009 to 2013 — "were incomplete or could not be located at all." The paperwork was missing, but the $6 billion itself was not missing or stolen. It had been doled out in contracts.

Trump: "Her plan is going to raise taxes and even double your taxes."

This is Mostly False. The vast majority of taxpayers would see no change to their tax bill or even tax cuts. The richest payers would see increases, but not even the typical richest taxpayer would see their taxes double.

Clinton: "Indeed, he said women should be punished, that there should be some form of punishment for women who obtain abortions."

Trump did say something to this effect, but within a matter of hours, his campaign retracted that statement. Trump said he meant doctors should be punished for providing abortions, not women who undergo the procedure. There's no evidence this was a long-held position.

Trump: The allegations of sexual assault against him "have been largely debunked."

False. Some of the women's stories have been questioned, but none have been conclusively debunked. Five of the nine accounts have not been disputed. Four have been corroborated by the women's family, friends or colleagues.

Clinton: "We have 17 intelligence agencies, civilian and military, who have all concluded that these espionage attacks, these cyberattacks, come from the highest levels of the Kremlin and they are designed to influence our election."

This is True. The Director of National Intelligence, which speaks for the country's 17 federal intelligence agencies, released a joint statement saying the intelligence community at large is confident that Russia is behind recent hacks into political organizations' emails.

Trump: "Buffett took hundreds of millions of dollars, Soros, George Soros, took hundreds of millions of dollars. ... Most of her donors have done the same thing as I do."

Trump previously invoked Clinton backers Warren Buffett and George Soros as a defense of his allegedly not paying federal income taxes for 18 years, but this is misleading.

Trump's $916 million loss could have allowed him to have a $50 million personal deduction each year for 18 years. As for Buffet and Soros, their situations are not that similar. Buffet's company, not himself, took a $514 million deduction in 2013. Soros has run a hedge fund that suffered losses, but this deduction would have similarly not appeared on Soros' personal tax returns.

Clinton: "I want us to have the biggest jobs program since World War II, jobs in infrastructure and advanced manufacturing."

Using rough estimates of public investment in several sectors, the size of Clinton's proposals — at least $900 billion over 10 years — appears larger than any other 10-year investment since World War II. It's worth keeping in mind, though, that when we look at the size of the historical public investments as a share of GDP, there have been 12 years since World War II with larger public investments. We rated her claim Half True.

Trump: Affordable Care Act "premiums are going up 60 percent, 70 percent, 80 percent. Next year they're going to go up over 100 percent."

Last year, Trump floated rates of 35 to 55 percent. Some insurance plans in the federal exchange will see price increases at the levels that Trump is suggesting. But he was cherry-picking the high end of premium changes to come.

The Kaiser Family Foundation estimates that the standard insurance plan will increase by an average of 9 percent in 2017, with some cities seeing decreases of 13 percent while others see 25 percent.

Clinton: "There was even a time when he didn't get an Emmy for his TV program three years in a row and he started tweeting that the Emmys were rigged against him."

We found several instances of Trump whining about not winning the Emmys for "The Apprentice" between 2012 and 2014. Though he called the Emmys unfair and political, he never directly said the system is rigged. We rate Clinton's claim Half True.

Trump: "This is coming from Pew report and other places — millions of people that are registered to vote that shouldn't be registered to vote."

When asked about his claims that the election is rigged, Trump offered a 2012 study from the Pew research center. The Pew report, which estimates 24 million invalid or inaccurate voter registrations, does not say there is voter fraud. In fact, the center's director of election initiatives said, "These bad records are not leading to fraud but could lead to the perception of fraud."

Trump's claims of widespread voter fraud are Pants on Fire.
© Copyright 2016, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
