
State briefs for Sunday, Nov. 6
Newspaper November 6, 2016 | Richmond Times-Dispatch (VA)
Author: From staff and wire reports Section: Metro 462 Words
Page: 4B

State news

Prosecutors set to respond to Election Day complaints

ALEXANDRIA - Federal prosecutors and FBI agents will be on duty in Virginia on Tuesday to respond to any reports of voter fraud or intimidation.

As in past years, the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia will be implementing the Justice Department's Election Day Program in its territory, which includes Richmond, Northern Virginia and Hampton Roads.

Specific prosecutors have been assigned to handle any reports that come in. Federal law prohibits voter fraud such as intimidating or bribing voters, buying and selling votes, or impersonating voters.

Complaints on Election Day can be directed to the U.S. Attorney's Office in Alexandria at (703) 299-3700 while the polls are open.

McAuliffe unveils website to help fight opioid abuse

RICHMOND - Virginia's state government has a new website designed to help battle opioid and heroin addiction.

Gov. Terry McAuliffe on Tuesday announced the creation of VaAware.com, which he said was an informational tool for the public, health care practitioners and law enforcement officials.

Opioid deaths in Virginia have risen dramatically in recent years. In 2015, there were 801 deaths, a nearly 50 percent increase since 2012.

The website was recommended by McAuliffe's newly created task force on prescription drug and heroin abuse.

Task force being created to fight human trafficking

VIRGINIA BEACH - Officials are creating a task force to help combat human trafficking in Hampton Roads.

Attorney General Mark R. Herring's office said the task force will be established with a $1.45 million federal grant.

The task force will seek to assist victims, investigate and prosecute crimes and raise awareness about the problem in the region and across the state.

The grant from the U.S. Department of Justice will fund, among other things, an anti-human trafficking coordinator in the attorney general's office and expanded bed space and more staffers at Samaritan, an anti-trafficking nonprofit in Virginia Beach.

Herring's office says Virginia had the 13th-most cases reported to the National Human Trafficking Resource Center hotline through June 30.

City Hall in Chesapeake to display 'In God We Trust'

CHESAPEAKE - The Chesapeake City Council has decided to display the motto "In God We Trust" at City Hall.

The council approved the display in a 7-0 vote on Oct. 25, The Virginian-Pilot reported.

The proposal was introduced by Councilwoman Suzy Kelly and was backed by the Congressional Prayer Caucus Foundation, a Chesapeake-based organization that plans to donate a plaque bearing the motto.

The organization's founder, Rep. J. Randy Forbes, R-4th, says the motto will help Americans "recognize that there are priorities bigger than ourselves."

The Congressional Prayer Caucus Foundation has been pushing courthouses, governments and first responders across the country to adopt the motto.

Kelly said she hopes the city's School Board also will consider adopting the motto.

- From staff and wire reports
© Copyright 2016, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
