Scott: VSAC is working to boost employment
Newspaper January 28, 2017 | Rutland Herald (VT)
Author: Vermont Press Bureau Section: Local 1233 Words
Article Page: 6

The Vermont Student Assistance Corp. says its nondegree grant program is working as intended and providing career opportunities and employment gains in Vermont.

Officials with VSAC and Gov. Phil Scott held a news conference Thursday to highlight a new study about the program that suggests 61 percent of adult students who were unemployed prior to completing the nondegree course became employed, either full or part time, while another 10 percent enrolled in school or training programs.

“This is just the type of investment we need to make in Vermont,” the governor said. “It creates real opportunities for Vermonters who need education and training for our new economy and the jobs that are waiting to be filled.”

Scott said the program and other postsecondary education schooling and training will help grow the state’s workforce and fill the needs of Vermont businesses.

The state’s nondegree program was the first in the nation when it was launched 35 years ago. It provides unemployed Vermonters with affordable access to training and education that can help lead to good-paying jobs. Demand for the program has doubled in the last decade, according to officials.

However, funding for the grant program typically runs out midyear, leaving enrolled Vermonters unable to accomplish immediate career goals. Scott proposed an additional $1 million in funding for VSAC in the state budget he proposed this week. More than 1,700 students received grants averaging $1,800 for their studies last year.

The VSAC study said the typical Vermonter who uses the nondegree grant program is a 33-year-old woman, lives in a household of two and has an annual income of $20,444.

According to the study, 58 percent of enrollees were employed or found jobs in the sectors of education and training, health sciences and human services. Other findings include:

— More than 90 percent of students used the nondegree grant to complete education and training programs in Vermont.

— More than 30 percent of students who used the nondegree grant program in the last year said they are now employed full time after being unemployed or only working part time.

— Respondents reported increased earnings after completing the course, regardless of their initial employment status.

— Recipients of the nondegree grant who enrolled in training overwhelmingly felt that the skills they gained in their training would help them in current or future jobs.

The survey asked respondents to offer comments about how the program has helped them.

“Things were very tight financially until I completed

See Capitol, Page A7

my training and got hired at CCTA. We received Section 8, Reach Up and Food Stamps,” one respondent wrote.

“I was homeless,” another wrote. “I knew I would need a good career so I turned to VSAC to help in the process. I now work full time 50+, while taking courses at a local college. I also volunteer several days a week at the local homeless shelter and have my own apartment so my son can come visit. … The non-degree grant from VSAC helped start a great life while giving back.”

Trump reactions

Elected officials in Vermont offered strong reactions to executive memos and orders revealed in the past week by the administration of Republican President Donald Trump.

One such memo could lead to the reopening of “black sites” in foreign countries where intelligence officials have used “enhanced interrogation” techniques in the past. Reopening such sites could lead to the use of waterboarding, which simulates drowning. Former Democratic President Barack Obama ended the use of black sites and enhanced interrogation with executive orders.

Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., issued a statement saying the president “should put this draft executive order in the trash where it belongs.”

“No president should even consider reinstating the CIA’s so-called enhanced interrogation techniques by redefining torture, reopening the ‘black sites’ where the CIA secretly detained and tortured human beings in the name of fighting terrorism, or sending more people to the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. These same practices stripped America of its standing in the world as a leader in promoting and protecting human rights,” Leahy said.

In his statement, Leahy said “torture is wrong, illegal and it doesn’t work.”

“No set of alternative facts will change that,” he said. “That is why a bipartisan majority of lawmakers voted to outlaw those practices, and why nominees to cabinet positions have rejected the use of torture during their confirmation hearings. It is not enough for Trump administration aides to deny this draft came from the White House. The administration should denounce it.”

Meanwhile, Vermont Secretary of State Jim Condos lashed out at Trump for reiterating unsubstantiated claims that between 3 million and 5 million people voted illegally in November’s general election.

Trump made the claim publicly at least twice in the past week. He said he plans to call for a “major investigation” into voter fraud, despite no evidence to suggest such widespread fraud occurred.

“Voters have every right to expect accountability in their elections process, but unsubstantiated voter fraud claims undermine our democracy and disparage the hundreds of thousands of hardworking election officials across our great nation,” Condos wrote in a statement. “It is disappointing that the president of the United States would cast doubt through unproven falsehoods. It is hard to believe the president does not have the information in his hands to make an informed judgment about the nonexistence of voter fraud by the millions.”

Condos said he is concerned that the president’s “baseless statements are intended to set the stage for attempts from Washington, D.C., to roll back voting rights by imposing unnecessary restrictions on that constitutional right.

“Such attempts by states are being overturned by court after court as discriminatory and based in partisan politics,” Condos wrote. “Those of us who administer elections for a living are well aware that study after study has shown that widespread voter fraud is a myth. True voter fraud is denying an otherwise eligible American from their constitutional right to participate in their democracy.”

Condos said any investigation into voter fraud “must be conducted in an open, fair and nonpartisan way.”

Scott’s budget

The Vermont House and Senate Committees on Appropriations will be seeking public input on the 2018 fiscal year state budget proposed by Gov. Phil Scott at community-based public hearings between 6-7 p.m. Feb. 13.

Hearings will be held at six locations around Vermont, including:

— Bellows Falls, at Windham Antique Center, 5 The Square.

— Johnson, at Johnson State College, Bentley 207.

— Rutland City, at Rutland Public Schools, Longfellow School Building.

— St. Albans City, at St. Albans City Elementary School, library.

— St. Johnsbury, at the St. Johnsbury School, cafeteria.

— Winooski, at Community College of Vermont, Janice Couture Room (108).

An additional public hearing will be held from 6-7 p.m. Feb. 16, in Room 11 of the State House in Montpelier.

Anyone interested in testifying should attend one of the hearings. Time limits on testimony may apply depending on the volume of participants. Anyone who has a story or information they want to share privately with committee members should call Theresa Utton-Jerman to schedule time at the end of one of the hearings.

To view or print a copy of the proposed budget, visit the Vermont Department of Finance and Management’s website.

For more information about the format of these hearings or to submit written testimony, call Theresa Utton-Jerman or Rebecca Buck at the Joint Fiscal Office at 828-5767, or toll-free at 1-800-322-5616. You can also send an email to tutton@leg.state.vt.us or rbuck@leg.state.vt.us.

Capitol

Continued from Page A6
Copyright, 2017, Rutland Herald
