
Top Trump adviser registered to vote in both in New York and Florida
Newspaper January 25, 2017 | Seattle Post-Intelligencer (WA)
Section: Local News 361 Words
Top Trump adviser registered to vote in both in New York and Florida
The chief White House strategist to President Trump, Stephen Bannon, is registered to vote in both New York and Florida -- news revealed as Trump was tweeting his call for an investigation into voter fraud.

On Twitter, the 45th President tweeted on Wednesday:

even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time). Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures!

— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017

If Trump carries through, he can walk to a neighboring office and investigate the controversial former Breitbart editor who is one of his two top aides.

The Florida Division of Elections records Bannon as a registered Republican voter in Nokomis, Florida. He has been registered, since April of 2014, at the address of a Breitbart contributor and political associate named Andy Badolato.

At the same time, however, as initially reported by The Guardian, Bannon is a registered Republican at an apartment in Manhattan. He voted in New York last November, presumably for Trump.

There is no law against being registered to vote in more than one state. But it is illegal to vote in an election in more than one state.

Trump is super-sensitive at having lost the popular vote to Hillary Clinton by a whopping 2.9 million votes, largely due to her huge victory in California. He has made the false claim that millions of illegal votes accounted for her margin.

Trump has pressed the case, even as it is debunked by congressional Republicans. He repeated the falsehood at a meeting with leaders of Congress. He has sent out press secretary Sean Spicer to underscore the claim.

Democrats are fearful the "major investigation" will spawn additional Republican efforts to suppress voting by African-Americans, Latinos, working women and young people.

More Information

Top Trump adviser reg
(c) Copyright 2017 Seattle Post-Intelligencer (http://seattlep-i.com). All rights reserved. Reproduced with permission of the Seattle Post-Intelligencer.
