
DNC SEEKS ORDER ON RNC PUSH - FBI, NYPD ASSESS POSSIBLE THREAT - CHRISTIE DELAYS TAX RETURN RELEASE
Newspaper November 5, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ)
Section: News 530 Words
Page: 6
DNC SEEKS ORDER ON RNC PUSH - FBI, NYPD ASSESS POSSIBLE THREAT - CHRISTIE DELAYS TAX RETURN RELEASE
Lawyers for the Democratic National Committee on Friday argued the Republican National Committee should be found in violation of a 35-year-old court-imposed agreement in New Jersey that bars the RNC from conducting ballot-security activities that might result in voter intimidation.

At the heart of the DNC's argument is its claim that Republican presidential candidate Donald J. Trump is coordinating those activities with the RNC, a violation of a 1981 federal consent decree barring anti-voter-fraud efforts.

Trump has claimed the election may be "rigged" through voter fraud in key states.

In filings in the U.S. District Court in Newark, the DNC cited statements by Trump's team - including running mate Mike Pence and campaign manager Kellyanne Conway - that they were coordinating with the RNC to ensure "ballot integrity" and prevent voter fraud.

Under the federal decree, the RNC has agreed not to engage in ballot-security efforts where they might deter qualified voters from voting.

Conway later retracted those comments - a fact emphasized by the RNC's legal team, who said she was simply mistaken - but attorney Josh Kaul told Judge John Michael Vasquez it was telling that similar statements kept popping up.

Kaul, one of several lawyers representing the DNC, told Vazquez the attorneys "believe (Trump and the RNC) are both acting in concert and that Mr. Trump is acting as an agent of the RNC."

Attorneys for the RNC have argued the campaign and the national committee are legally separate entities, and that there is no "convincing evidence" of collusion between the two.

Vazquez has yet to issue an opinion in the case.

- Thomas Moriarty

The FBI and New York Police Department said they are assessing the credibility of information they received of a possible al-Qaida terror attack against the U.S. on the eve of Election Day.

Officials said Friday that counterterrorism investigators were reviewing the information that mentioned New York, Texas and Virginia as potential targets.

It wasn't immediately clear how the intelligence came to investigators' attention. An NYPD spokesman says in a statement the information "lacks specificity."

- Associated Press

Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump isn't the only Republican keeping his tax records private.Gov. Chris Christie has broken with precedent and has not yet released his 2015 tax returns.

In all his years as governor, Christie has filed for an extension in April and released his family's tax returns in October.

Brian Murray, a spokesman for the governor, offered no explanation for this year's delay, saying in an email that "the Governor and Mrs. Christie will release their taxes when they are ready to do so."

In October 2015, the Christies disclosed that they earned nearly $1 million in income for 2014, much of that from first lady Mary Pat Christie's income at the specialty investment firm Angelo Gordon.

In April 2015, the first lady took an indefinite hiatus from her Wall Street job at Angelo when Christie ran for president in 2015. She has not returned to work there.

As governor, Christie earns $175,000 a year, but he is also given a $95,000 discretionary entertainment fund, which is shielded fromdisclosure laws and which the governor does not count as income.

Trump, to whom Christie serves as transition planning chief, has maintainedsecrecy surrounding his personal finances.

- Claude Brodesser-Akner
Copyright (c) 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
