
News
Newspaper September 15, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ)
Section: News 711 Words
Page: 6
News
Trump heckled in Flint

Donald Trump was cut off, chastised and then heckled after he attacked rival Hillary Clinton during what was supposed to be a speech on helping people in Flint, Mich., who had been failed by government.

"Mr. Trump, I invited you here to thank us for what we've done in Flint, not give a political speech," said the Rev. Faith Green Timmons, the pastor of the Bethel United Methodist Church.

The Republican nominee quickly stopped, then said: "OK, that's good, Then I'm going to go back to Flint" and its water crisis that had sickened its citizens.

But the interruption seemed to embolden those in the sparse crowd. One woman shouted that Trump had used discriminatory housing practices in his buildings, causing the businessman to respond, "Never, you're wrong. Never would."

Trump abruptly ended his speech, which had lasted six minutes. More heckling followed him out.

The visit was part of the campaign's effort to persuade voters that the mogul can appear empathetic and presidential in a crisis. Trump also has his eye on a good showing in the industrial Midwest, though polls have him down in Michigan, which last went Republican in 1988.

The trip was the Republican presidential nominee's first visit to the poverty-stricken city since lead was detected in its water supply in April 2014. More than 100,000 had their water contaminated after the city left Detroit's water supply and started using improperly treated Flint River water.

- Associated Press

Melania Trump fights back

Melania Trump released a letter Wednesday from an immigration attorney that provided more detail on what she said was her legal pathway to U.S. citizenship.

But the Slovenian-born wife of the Republican presidential nominee did not publish any part of her immigration file - official documents that would put to rest questions about whether she followed immigration law.

The two-page letter from Michael J. Wildes, a lawyer who has represented Donald Trump's companies, also advanced an alternate timeline for a nude photo shoot that had been cited in news reports as possible evidence of Mrs. Trump working as a model in New York City without authorization.

At issue is whether the photo shoot occurred in 1995 - before Mrs. Trump has said she began legally working in the U.S. - or in 1996, as she and Wildes assert.

The letter marks the first time that the candidate's wife has publicly identified the type of visas she held and given specifics about her entry into the U.S. She has often said she came to the U.S. legally and used her story to defend her husband's hard line on illegal immigration, an issue that he has made a signature part of his campaign.

In the letter from Wildes, it is unclear whether Melania Trump provided him access to her full immigration file during his review. Wildes wrote that he had reviewed several news reports and "documents regarding the U.S. immigration history of Mrs. Melania Trump." But the letter did not indicate which documents.

- Associated Press

GOP gains in adding voters

Republicans have gained ground on Democrats in registering voters in three battleground states and kept their razor-thin advantage in Iowa - encouraging news for Donald Trump eight weeks before Election Day.

They added hundreds of thousands of voters to the rolls since 2012 in states including Florida and Arizona, and narrowed the gap in North Carolina, according to data compiled by the Associated Press.

In Iowa, Republicans prevented Democrats from surpassing them, aided by a court ruling upholding a ban on voting by ex-felons, who often register as Democrats.

As Election Day approaches, voter registration drives are in full swing.

Hillary Clinton's campaign is staging registration rallies and appealing in particular to nonwhites and young people, who are more likely to vote early - if they vote at all. Trump is relying mostly on a base of white voters, urging supporters to be vigilant for voter fraud and "rigging."

"The Clinton campaign cannot come close to our output," Sean Spicer, chief strategist for the Republican National Committee, said in a memo on Monday.

The latest registration numbers aren't an assurance of new voters for Trump. Some changes reflect those who have died and been removed from the list, while others are inactive, not having voted in recent elections. The figures offer important clues as to how each party stands.

- Associated Press
Copyright (c) 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
