
Debate: Head to head for last time
Newspaper October 20, 2016 | New Hampshire Union Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH)
Author: Staff and Wire Reports Section: Page1 479 Words
Page: 1
Clinton-Trump: Candidates face high stakes in final contest.

Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump said during their final debate that Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton would dismantle the Second Amendment and weaken the rights of gun owners. (Related stories, Page B1.)

“We need a Supreme Court that ... will uphold the Second Amendment, which is under terrible siege,” Trump, 70, said.

If Clinton, 68, is elected, the Second Amendment will be “a very small replica of what it is right now,” Trump warned.

Clinton defended her support of the Second Amendment but voiced support for gun control such as criminal background checks and closing the so-called gun show loophole.

“I understand and respect the traditions of gun ownership. I also believe there can be and should be reasonable regulation,” Clinton said.

With regards to the Supreme Court, Clinton said she would support justices that favor individual rights.

Unlike past, final presidential debates, the candidates were not seated; both said they preferred to stand at a lectern.

Prior to the contest, Fox News revealed that the top six topics during the debate would be national debt and enentitlement spending, immigration, the economy, the Supreme Court vacancy, foreign hot spots and fitness to be President.

Trump’s invited guests at the event included Malik Obama, the President’s half-brother who has endorsed Trump’s candidacy, along with conservative blogger James O’Keefe.

In the past week, Trump has maintained that the bias of the national media and rampant voter fraud threaten to make this a rigged election. On Tuesday, President Obama urged Trump to stop “whining” and said it showed the GOP nominee didn’t have the intestinal fortitude to handle the job.

In the latest New Hampshire poll released Wednesday night, Clinton opened up a large, 15-point lead over Trump, 49 percent to 34 percent, according to the University of New Hampshire Survey Center report for WMUR.

Libertarian nominee Gary Johnson gets 8 percent, Green Party candidate Jill Stein has 2 percent support; the other 7 percent are undecided.

Among likely voters, 62 percent said Clinton had the right experience to be President, compared to only 18 percent who said Trump did.

A Trump campaign spokesman noted the Clinton campaign had questioned the accuracy of WMUR-UNH polls in the past.

“This poll is historically wrong and does not reflect the sentiments we are hearing from voters as we go door to door. Simply put, this poll under-samples Republicans and doesn’t accurately reflect the independent nature of Granite State voters as they walk into the polls,” said Mike Biundo, a senior advisor in the Trump campaign and NH GOP strategist.

New Hampshire still continues to get plenty of attention from both camps. Vice President Joe Biden comes to Nashua today while Trump’s running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, returns for two events here on Friday.

Clinton comes back Monday for her third stop since wrapping up the nomination. She will appear with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren.
Copyright, 2016, Union Leader Corp.
