Hillary Clinton vs. Donald Trump latest presidential polls:Chances ofClinton winning Nov. 8slip slightly 
October22,2016 |BirminghamNews:Web Edition Articles (AL) Section: News 
340 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton's chances of becoming the first female president are down but still hover above the 85 percent mark, according to the most recent forecasts. 
FiveThirtyEight.com has Clinton's chances of winning in the Nov. 8 general election at 86 percent as compared to 14 percent for Republican challenger Donald Trump. The numbers are based on which candidate people said they would vote for if the election were held today. 
An alternate forecast on the same site  based on polls, the performance of the economy and historical data  has Clinton's chances at 84 percent compared to Trump's 16 percent. 
FiveThirtyEight's forecast earlier this week had Clinton's chances of defeating Trump at 90 percent. The business mogul-turned-politician's numbers rebounded slightly in the wake of Wednesday night's final presidential debate after weeks of turmoil over reports that the candidate sexually harassed women. Trump has repeatedly denied those claims. 
Post-debate polls indicate most think Clinton won the third showdown. Trump was criticized for his debate comments in which he said he might not accept the outcome of the general election, referencing earlier statements about possible voter fraud. Trump later clarified the remarks by saying he would accept the outcome but only if he wins. 
The FiveThirtyEight breakdown has Clinton winning 335 electoral votes to Trump's 201.5, with Utah independent Evan McMullin at 1.4 and Libertarian Gary Johnson at 0.1. A candidate needs 270 Electoral College voters to win the election. 
How the presidential forecasts have changed 
Historical numbers reflect just how much the presidential race has changed in the last 30 days. On Sept. 26, Clinton was polling at 52 percent compared to Trump's 48 percent. Two weeks later  after the release of a video showing Trump referring to grabbing a woman's genitals  the numbers flipped to 90 percent for the Democratic nominee and 10 percent for the GOP pick. 
The numbers have also flipped in battleground states, with Clinton now leading in Florida, Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Ohio. 
InsideGov | Graphiq 
Trump on accepting election outcome:"I'll keep you in suspense" 
Copyright, 2016, Birmingham News. All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Hillary Clinton vs. Donald Trump latest presidential polls: Chances of Clinton winning Nov. 8 slip slightly', Birmingham News: Web Edition Articles (online), 22 Oct 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16038216C3279E00 
