How much do Uber drivers make in Alabama? 
November23,2016 |BirminghamNews:WebEditionArticles (AL) Section: News 
473 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Leada Gore | lgore@al.com 
As ride sharing becomes more popular, the number of people wanting to pick up some extra money by ferrying others around grows. But how much can you really make using your car as a taxi? In the case of Uber, it all depends on where 
you're driving. Uber currently services Auburn, Birmingham, Huntsville, Mobile, Montgomery and Tuscaloosa. While city-by-city data is not available, the site idrivewithuber.com can give us a pretty good idea. According to the site, the average Uber driver in Birmingham who works 20-28 hours a week  or about 60 trips 
ferrying passengers a week  earns $35,006. That works out to about $11.22 per trip, $674 a week and as much as $33.66 per hour. Keep in mind, however, that money is before expenses related to vehicle operation and there are plenty 
of drivers who report making much less. About half of Uber's drivers in the U.S. drive 10 hours or less each week, according to a recent study, and pay can fluctuate widely based on the city they are in, the time of day they are driving and other factors. 
Welcome to Wednesday's Wake Up Call. Let's see what's going on: North Carolina governor calls for recount North Carolina Gov. Pat McCrory is calling for statewide recount in his reelection race. McCrory trails Democrat Roy Cooper by about 6,000 votes. A statement from his campaign said that the 
recount is needed due to "legal challenges, ballot protests and voter fraud allegations." Meanwhile, Cooper is moving ahead with naming his transition team. Carson considered for HUD post Former presidential candidate Ben Carson is considering an offer to become the secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development in the Trump administration. A spokesperson for the retired surgeon said he will decide on the matter over the Thanksgiving holiday. 
Carson previously said he preferred not to become a part of the administration and preferred to work outside of Washington, D.C. Toys R Us pulls toy truck after it catches on fire 
Toys R Us said it will stop selling a Tonka truck after it caught fire. The Tonka 12V Ride-On Dump Truck was in the back of a pickup truck when it burst into flames. The family that bought the truck put out the flames and returned to the store where the toy caught fire against. 
Toys R Us said the incident appears isolated and has issued a refund and pulled the item from its shelves. It has not announced a full recall. Twitter oops Twitter accidentally suspended the account of its own CEO. 
Twitter briefly suspended the account of its CEO Jack Dorsey Tuesday afternoon. Users initially thought the account might have been hacked but Dorsey later tweeted the suspension was the result of an "internal mistake." Not everything appeared to be functioning properly, however, with Dorsey's account showing 145 followers as opposed to the correct figure of 3.9 million. 
Until tomorrow. 
Copyright, 2016, Birmingham News. All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'How much do Uber drivers make in Alabama?', Birmingham News: Web Edition Articles (online), 23 Nov 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160D911A6A865270 
