Sessions 'not a racist,' says son of black couple once prosecuted for voter fraud 
January 4,2017 |BirminghamNews:Web Edition Articles (AL) Section: News 
618 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Perry County Commissioner Albert Turner Jr., whose parents were unsuccessfully prosecuted for voter fraud by then-U.S. Attorney Jeff Sessions in the 1985, endorsed Alabama's junior senator Wednesday for U.S. attorney general. 
The Perry County voter fraud case against Albert Turner Sr., and his wife, Evelyn Turner, set off allegations that Sessions' unfairly treated black defendants in such cases while turning a blind eye to voter fraud perpetrated by whites. The Turners were acquitted. 
The older Turner, who was an aide to Martin Luther King Jr. and died in 2000, told NBC News at the time that he thought "the case was political." 
"I actually don't think Jeff Sessions ever came in with an ounce of evidence," he said. 
Evelyn Turner told USA Today on Wednesday that her son did not speak for the family and that she did not agree with his endorsement of Sessions. 
"That is not going to change as long as I'm black, I don't think a change is in the cards," she said, adding that Sessions "shouldn't be named to catch dogs." 
The younger Turner's views are at odds with his father. 
"I have known Sen. Sessions for many years, beginning with the voter fraud case in Perry County in which my parents were defendants. My differences in policy and ideology with him do not translate to personal malice. He is not a racist," the Perry County commissioner said in a statement. "As I have said before, at no time then or now has Jeff Sessions said anything derogatory about my family. He was a prosecutor at the Federal level with a job to do. He was presented with evidence by a local District Attorney that he relied on, and his office presented the case. That's what a prosecutor does. I believe him when he says that he was simply doing his job." 
While the younger Turner said he disagrees with Sessions "on some issues," he and Trump's attorney general nominee "share certain Alabama and American values, including a love for our state, its people and our country." 
"A lot has been said about Senator Jeff Sessions and his record on issues related to race -some of it distorted and unfair. Some of these statements have included references to matters with which I have a very personal connection. My family and I have literally been on the front line of the fight for civil rights my whole life. And while I respect the deeply held positions of other civil rights advocates who oppose Senator Sessions, I believe it is important for me to speak out with regard to Senator Sessions personally. 
"I believe that he is someone with whom I, and others in the civil rights community, can work [with] if given the opportunity," he went on to say. "I believe that he will listen, as he has in the past, to the concerns of my community. More than most I am very familiar with him. I believe he will be fair in his application of the law and the Constitution; as such I support his nomination to be the next Attorney General of the United States." 
Sarah Flores, a spokeswoman for Sessions, said Turner's endorsement and statement on the Perry County case was "important." 
"There have been relentless attacks on the prosecution stating there were false charges and that it was unjustified and racially motivated," she said in a statement. "Commissioner Turner defends Jeff Sessions' integrity in bringing the case, acknowledging that Senator Sessions was performing his responsibilities in good faith, acting on evidence provided by the local district attorney, and was 'simply doing his job.' This is further confirmation of the testimony of career Department of Justice officials who approved the investigation and the indictment, and the decision of the judge that the evidence presented was sufficient to send to the jury." 
Copyright, 2017, Birmingham News. All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Sessions 'not a racist,' says son of black couple once prosecuted for voter fraud', Birmingham News: Web Edition Articles (online), 4 Jan 2017 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/161B68F0AE6695F8 
