Mo Brooks: 'War on whites' led to criticism ofJeffSessions 
January11,2017 |BirminghamNews:WebEditionArticles (AL) Author: Jonece Starr Dunigan 
Section: News 
520 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks, R-Huntsville, said criticism against Sen. Jeff Sessions, President-elect Donald Trump's pick for U.S. Attorney General, is part of a plan by Democrats to create racial division. 
Brooks made the comments Tuesday during the Huntsville radio show "The Morning Show With Toni and Gary when he was asked a question about the scrutiny Sessions is facing during his confirmation hearing. Sessions has been dogged by allegations of racism since his nomination. 
"It's really about political power and racial division and what I've referred to on occasion as the 'war on whites.' They are trying to motivate the African-American vote to vote-bloc for Democrats by using every 'Republican is a racist' tool that they can envision," Brooks said. 
Brooks defended his statement to AL.com Wednesday night. 
"There are no laws that I am aware of at the state and federal level that permit discrimination against African-Americans, Asian-Americans, Hispanic-Americans or any other kind of American except for Caucasian-Americans," he said. "There are federal statues in particular and any number of state statues around the county that permit discrimination against Caucasians for no other reason except their skin color." 
As an example, Brooks cited the Diversity Immigrant Visa (DV) Program which, "approximately 50,000 foreigners a year can compete for in order to come into the U.S. -except for Caucasians." 
"That is racism. Pure and simple," Brooks said. "And that is a racist program promoted and defended by Democrats. We have voted to make that program open to Caucasians and the Democrats have defeated our efforts in the U.S. Congress." 
Tuesday's comments weren't the first time Brooks has referenced "the war on whites." In 2014, he used the same terms when discussing what he said were efforts by African-Americans and Hispanics in the Democratic Party to promote racial divisions. At the time, Reince Priebus, who was then chair of the National Republican Committee, said the phrase was not appropriate. Priebus is now Trump's Chief of Staff. 
Brooks supporting Sessions 
Brooks showed his support for Sessions by attending and testifying during the Alabama Republican's confirmation hearing. Brooks called allegations of racism against Sessions "damnably false" and mentioned a voter fraud case Sessions prosecuted after pleas he heard from black officials. 
"Sen. Jeff Sessions made the state of Alabama proud with his display of honor and dignity during today's 
U.S. Senate Attorney General confirmation hearing," Brooks said in a statement. "I have been fortunate to know Sen. Sessions for more than 20 years and admire him as a dedicated public servant of strong moral character, committed to upholding the rule of law." 
Brooks said he believes Democrats are lying about Sessions to continue the "theme of racial divide" against the Republican party. 
"It was the Republican party that ended slavery...it was the Republican party that passed the Civil Rights Act," Brooks said. "I would hope that anyone in America who wants equality (for all races) would let the Democratic party know that they, too, disagree with the theme of racial division and the path it takes us down." 
Brooks is one of several people seeking appointment to the Senate if Sessions is confirmed. Gov. Robert Bentley will appoint Sessions' replacement. 
Copyright, 2017, Birmingham News. All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Jonece StarrDunigan, 'Mo Brooks: 'Waron whites' led to criticismofJeffSessions', Birmingham News: Web Edition Articles (online), 11 Jan 2017 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/161DE35ADB2B98D0 
