Election chief hopefuls debate voter IDs, fraud - Candidates trade jabs in Sec. of State race
Newspaper October 17, 2016 | Albuquerque Journal (NM)
Author: DEBORAH BAKER JOURNAL CAPITOL BUREAU Section: Metro & New Mexico 517 Words
Page: C1
Election chief hopefuls debate voter IDs, fraud - Candidates trade jabs in Sec. of State race
The candidates for secretary of state clashed Sunday over voter identification and other issues in their only face-to-face debate of this election season, underscoring sharp philosophical differences.

Democrat Maggie Toulouse Oliver, the Bernalillo County clerk, and Republican Nora Espinoza, a member of the state House of Representatives from Roswell, answered questions and took jabs at each other at a forum at Congregation Albert in Albuquerque.

They’re running in the Nov. 8 general election to fill out the final two years of the term of former Secretary of State Dianna Duran, who resigned last year, pleaded guilty to misusing her campaign funds, and was jailed.

“I believe the key issue is to restore integrity, transparency and trust in the Secretary of State’s Office,” Toulouse Oliver said.

Espinoza said requiring voters to show photo identification at the polls — thereby ensuring “honest, fair elections” — is the most important issue, a theme she returned to repeatedly during the debate.

She said her Democratic opponent “does not believe in the integrity of the process,” because she opposes voter ID. Voter fraud is “happening everywhere” and Toulouse Oliver “doesn’t get it,” the GOP nominee said.

Toulouse Oliver countered that there are already too many hurdles to voting, and a voter ID requirement could disenfranchise otherwise eligible voters — perhaps 10 percent or more of them.

“My opponent is, sadly, much more interested in keeping people from voting than encouraging people to participate in our democracy,” Toulouse Oliver told the crowd.

Election integrity and voter convenience are not mutually exclusive, the clerk also said.

The candidates differed on the issue of straight-party voting — marking the top of the ballot for the candidates of one party or the other.

Duran eliminated it, saying the statute allowing it had been erased from the books. Espinoza said the Legislature would have to reinstate it; Toulouse Oliver said the secretary of state already has that authority and she could reinstate straight-party voting if elected to make voting easier.

Espinoza criticized Toulouse Oliver for replacing precinct-based polling places in Bernalillo County — of which Toulouse Oliver said there had been 172 — with 69 voting convenience centers. She said that caused long lines and deterred voters. Toulouse Oliver said the system launched in 2012 was much more convenient, because voters could go to any centers.

A recent pre-election mailing from county Clerk’s Office to voters caught flak from the Republican candidate.

The mailings have cards that include bar codes the clerk says can be used by election officials to more quickly pull up voters’ records at the polls. Voters would then have to verify their identities. But Espinoza contended that at least one voter got three different bar-coded mailings, and that a restaurant got 25 of them — paving the way for possible voter fraud.

Toulouse Oliver said after the debate that she was not aware of the allegation about the restaurant and that her office would look into it.

Espinoza deflected a question about whether guns should be banned at polling places, saying it was up to the Legislature; the county clerk said they should be banned except for police officers.
Copyright (c) 2016 Albuquerque Journal

