NM has rules on poll watchers and challengers - Talk of rigged election abounds
Newspaper November 6, 2016 | Albuquerque Journal (NM)
Author: Copyright © 2016 Albuquerque Journal BY RICK NATHANSON JOURNAL STAFF WRITER Section: New Mexico 991 Words
Page: B1
NM has rules on poll watchers and challengers - Talk of rigged election abounds
Although Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has repeatedly voiced concern about rigged elections and has encouraged his supporters to “go out and watch the polls,” in New Mexico, the Trump campaign missed the Oct. 31 deadline to register poll watchers with the Secretary of State’s Office, said state Elections Director Kari Fresquez.

Likewise for Democrat Hillary Clinton’s campaign.

Although the presidential candidates will not have eyes in the form of poll watchers, in New Mexico they can still monitor the process through the use of “challengers,” who need only a signed affidavit from the county party chairman to present to the polling site’s presiding judge. With that, they can challenge a person’s eligibility to vote — at least, technically.

In reality, voters have little to fear about someone interfering with their right to vote, said Bernalillo County Clerk Maggie Toulouse Oliver, who is also the Democratic candidate for secretary of state.

“I’ve never had a challenge in a polling place in the almost 10 years since I’ve been county clerk,” she said. “We feel very confident that we have a fair and honest process here, and one of the benefits of having challengers and poll watchers from both political parties in the polling places, as well as poll workers from all political parties, is to make sure that there is always eyes on the process. The current statutes provide for a lot of transparency.”

Frank Ruvolo, Republican Party chairman for Bernalillo County, agreed that challenging a voter in Bernalillo County is nearly impossible.

In smaller counties and communities, where people tend to know their neighbors, it’s easier to identify someone who may be ineligible to vote if, for example, the person uses a different name or incorrect address. In Bernalillo County, with its enormous population and the freedom for people to vote at any of the 69 voting centers, “there’s no way for a challenger to know if a person is eligible or not.”

Still, it’s good for challengers to be in polling places “to watch the process and make sure the poll workers don’t goof up,” he said. “In my experience, poll workers have been trained well, and it’s highly unusual for a problem to occur at a voting location.”

Tucker Keene, communications director for the Republican Party of New Mexico, said he did not expect problems at the polling sites, but he noted that Trump and his team have “every right to look at the results on Election Day and make the determination for themselves whether the results are from a fair and open election process, as has every presidential candidate in the past.”

Tom Solomon, first vice chairman of the Democratic Party of New Mexico, also said challenges are practically nonexistent, though he is more concerned about this election than past elections because of the controversy stirred up by Trump.

That unease is shared by Joe Kabourek, executive director of the Democratic Party of New Mexico. Trump, he said, is the “only nominee in this election who has complained about the results even before a single vote has been cast, and what those factless claims might inspire his supporters to do.”

Whatever happens, it will be under the watchful eyes of poll workers and others. Ruvolo said he has signed off on 20 letters authorizing polling place challengers; Solomon said he expects to have one challenger from his party at each voting site in the county; and Common Cause, the only organization to register poll watchers with the Secretary of State’s Office, will place 10 of them at voting sites throughout the state, and another 45 in Bernalillo County, Fresquez said.

Should Trump supporters, or anyone not registered with the Secretary of State’s Office, show up at a voting site and claim to be a poll watcher, “the presiding judge of the polling site will ask that person to leave,” she said, and law enforcement can be called on those who refuse to comply.

Of course, supporters of any given candidate can, like any member of the public, stand outside a polling place as long as they are not being disruptive or obstructing access, and they can conduct formal or informal exit polls, she said. They cannot, however, campaign on behalf of a candidate unless they are 100 feet from the door.

There is a great deal of overlap in the duties that poll watchers and challengers perform, and both are given training about what types of problems to look for and when to sound the alarm. Both can move about from polling site to polling site within that county, and must be registered voters in that county.

Each sponsoring political party, candidate or organization can have no more than one poll watcher and one challenger in a polling place at the same time, Fresquez said.

In monitoring the polling sites, they:

Observe that the election is being conducted in accordance with the state Election Code.

Look at the voter list to determine whether a person who has signed in has cast a ballot.

Confirm there were zero votes on tabulator machines at the beginning of the day.

Ascertain whether the number of people on the voter list at the end of the day is equal to the number in the tabulating machine.

Make notes of any questionable actions or omissions on the part of polling site workers.

Election rigging and voter fraud have not been problems in the past and are not likely to be problems during Tuesday’s general election, Secretary of State Brad Winter said.

“Our system is based on a paper ballot, so there is documentation,” he said. “Tabulator machines tabulate the votes from paper ballots, so we can re-create the vote. Everything can be checked, audited and recounted.”Where to vote Tuesday

Bernalillo County residents can vote at any of the 69 polling sites, which will be open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Election Day. Log on to the Bernalillo County website at bernco.gov/ myvoterinformation for locations and wait times. Additional information can be found on the New Mexico Secretary of State’s Office website at sos.state.nm.us.
Copyright (c) 2016 Albuquerque Journal

