Predecessor looms over contest for secretary of state
Newspaper October 22, 2016 | Albuquerque Journal (NM)
Author: DEBORAH BAKER JOURNAL CAPITOL BUREAU Section: Front Page 1017 Words
Page: A1
Predecessor looms over contest for secretary of state
SANTA FE — Republicans were elated in 2010 when their candidate ended an 80-year drought and won the Secretary of State’s Office — only to see it come crashing down when Dianna Duran resigned in disgrace in the middle of her second term after breaking the same laws she was charged with overseeing.

As voters decide who should fill out the final two years of that term, the Duran mess hangs over the race between Democrat Maggie Toulouse Oliver and Republican Nora Espinoza.

Toulouse Oliver, the Bernalillo County clerk, puts the Duran episode front and center and says New Mexico’s third-highest office has been “left to languish for years” without proper administration.

Duran’s improper use of campaign funds to fuel a gambling habit wasn’t the first scandal for the office.

It was tainted by misconduct and allegations of wrongdoing under Duran’s two Democratic predecessors, and Duran won in 2010 after weary Dems crossed over to vote for a candidate who promised to restore integrity.

Espinoza, a state House member from Roswell, complains that Toulouse Oliver has made the race about Duran.

“I am the one on the ballot,” the Republican nominee reminds voters.

But like Duran, Espinoza is a forceful advocate for requiring voters to show a photo ID at the polls, which Toulouse Oliver opposes. Duran was fixated on voter fraud, and Espinoza says that’s the most important issue of the election. Espinoza, as did Duran, opposes same-day voter registration, which Toulouse Oliver favors.

And Espinoza’s campaign manager, Republican former state Sen. Rod Adair of Roswell, also worked for Duran’s campaign and held a high-level position in her office.

Toulouse Oliver says she is running to put integrity, transparency and trust back in the office.

Espinoza says she is a candidate “because I believe in the sanctity of each individual vote, that not one vote should be stolen, not one person disenfranchised.”

High-profile race

This year’s off-cycle election has made the race for secretary of state the premier state battle on a ballot that is topped by the volatile presidential race.

Toulouse Oliver has sought to tie Espinoza to the Republican presidential nominee, calling her “our own version of Donald Trump.” Democrats have criticized Espinoza for not denouncing Trump.

Espinoza says she won’t comment on other candidates or races because that would politicize the office she’s running for. She contends Toulouse Oliver would be a “political animal” in the Secretary of State’s Office, while she instead would have a “purely administrative” approach.

Each candidate paints the other as too extreme.

Espinoza calls her opponent an ideological activist and repeatedly brings up her support from billionaire George Soros, who backs progressive causes. She also criticizes the shuffling of money among political action committees on behalf of Toulouse Oliver’s candidacy, saying it obscures the sources of the funds.

Toulouse Oliver points to bills Espinoza sponsored that would have restricted abortions and allowed businesses to refuse to serve gay and transgender people, and calls her “one of the most extreme members of the Legislature in recent years.” Democrats also criticized the GOP lawmaker for proposing legislation to prohibit the enforcement of federal gun laws in New Mexico.

The Democratic nominee, who says that as secretary of state she would advocate for creation of a statewide ethics commission, also faults Espinoza for not being on the House floor during a vote on ethics commission legislation this year. Espinoza says she was meeting with constituents at the time.

The Republican nominee says that before an ethics commission is considered, the current campaign finance law should be updated and brought in line with court decisions, so that it’s enforceable and a commission “would have something to administer.”

Issues

Toulouse Oliver, who ran unsuccessfully against Duran two years ago, has been Bernalillo County clerk since 2007 and says she has improved and modernized elections — making voting more accessible — in the county where more than one-third of New Mexico’s voters live.

But Espinoza says the Democrat’s focus on outreach would mean “registering anybody, whether they are U.S. citizens or not U.S. citizens.”

She also criticized a recent mailing from current Secretary of State Brad Winter’s office to nearly 460,000 New Mexicans who appear to be eligible to vote but aren’t on the voter rolls, saying it could lead to noncitizens being registered and voting.

Winter, a Republican, was appointed last year by Gov. Susana Martinez after Duran’s resignation. He didn’t run for the office this year.

Espinoza has attacked the clerk’s record. For example, a batch of uncounted absentee ballots were discovered three weeks after the 2012 election. Toulouse Oliver says they were promptly reported and ultimately counted.

“Being an elections administrator doesn’t mean things go perfectly. Elections are not a perfect process. What you have to do is, when problems arise, you have to address them immediately and take responsibility and do everything in your power to fix them, and that’s what we did,” Toulouse Oliver said at a recent candidate debate.

Espinoza is critical of the clerk’s recent mailing to Bernalillo County voters of cards with bar codes, which Toulouse Oliver says can be used by election officials to more quickly pull up voters’ records at the polls. The GOP candidate contends that multiple cards have been mailed to a single address, the practice opens the door to fraud, and the clerk was not authorized by law to do the mailing.

Amid the contentiousness, the candidates do agree on one thing: The current online campaign finance information system in the Secretary of State’s Office needs an overhaul to make it more transparent and user-friendly.

In a Journal Poll of 501 likely voters conducted at the end of September, Toulouse Oliver led Espinoza 45 percent to 31 percent, with 24 percent undecided.

Candidate positions on …

Requiring photo voter ID:

Espinoza — Support Toulouse Oliver — Oppose

Allowing same-day (Election Day) voter registration:

Espinoza — Oppose Toulouse Oliver — Support

Allowing automatic voter registration linked to MVD:

Espinoza — Oppose Toulouse Oliver — Support

For full answers, as well as candidate profiles and answers to questions on other issues, go to the Voter Guide at

ABQJournal.com Editor’s note: This is part of a series of stories about New Mexico election races.
Copyright (c) 2016 Albuquerque Journal

