Mailer raises fraud concerns - METRO BEAT
Newspaper October 21, 2016 | Albuquerque Journal (NM)
Author: Dan McKay Section: Metro & New Mexico 347 Words
Page: C2
Mailer raises fraud concerns - METRO BEAT
Election workers in Bernalillo County and elsewhere are mailing “express check-in” paperwork to registered voters.

The notices include a unique bar code that can be scanned at the polls to speed the check-in process.

Some residents, however, have raised concerns about whether the barcode check-in might lead to voter fraud. One man says he received check-in paperwork for the previous owners of his home, and New Mexico state law doesn’t require a photo ID to vote.

Joey Keefe, a spokesman for the County Clerk’s Office, said the express check-in isn’t a ticket to bypass the identification rules already in place. Voters must still state their name, date of birth and address, regardless of whether they have the barcode, he said.

“Doing this fraudulently is a fourth-degree felony and a pretty unwise risk to take, which is why voter fraud in the form of voter impersonation almost never happens anywhere in the country,” Keefe said.

Early voting

Early voting is now available from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday through Saturday at the clerk’s annex, 1500 Lomas NW, Suite A.

Other early-voting sites open Saturday.

Sick-leave measure

Litigation over the sick-leave ballot measure is continuing in state District Court.

Supporters of the proposal have asked Judge Alan Malott to reconsider a ruling that requires publishing the entire ordinance on the ballot rather than just a summary.

They fear that the city ballot in October 2017 — when the proposal goes to voters — won’t have room for the entire ordinance. Lack of space also helped keep the proposal off this year’s ballot.

Publishing the full text, proponents say, will require the city to use a two-page ballot, but the equipment used in city and county elections can handle only one page.

One potential solution, supporters say: Allow a summary on the ballot, but publish the entire ordinance on a separate document available to voters.

The New Mexico Center on Law and Poverty filed the 17-page motion for reconsideration, on behalf of the “Healthy Workforce ABQ” campaign and other supporters.

The proposed ordinance would require employers in Albuquerque to offer paid sick leave to their workers.

Dan McKay: dmckay@abqjournal. com
Copyright (c) 2016 Albuquerque Journal

