Pence brings fighting spirit, Trump’s themes to ABQ - ‘Fair’ election result would be accepted, VP candidate says ELECTION 2016
Newspaper October 21, 2016 | Albuquerque Journal (NM)
Author: CHARLES D. BRUNT JOURNAL STAFF WRITER Section: Front Page 903 Words
Page: A1
Pence brings fighting spirit, Trump’s themes to ABQ - ‘Fair’ election result would be accepted, VP candidate says ELECTION 2016
Seeking to put a keen edge on many of the points Donald Trump made the night before at a presidential debate in Las Vegas, Nev., Republican vice presidential nominee Mike Pence said he and Trump are ready to correct, in their quest to “make American great again,” the mistakes of Hillary Clinton and President Obama. Speaking to an estimated 500 fawning GOP fans attending a Trump-Pence rally Thursday evening in the Embassy Suites ballrooms in Albuquerque, Pence hit on the nation’s economy, foreign policy, immigration, health care, military, Supreme Court, trade, election fraud and pay-to-play politics.

“I’m a Christian, a conservative and a Republican, in that order,” Pence said as he began his 39-minute speech.

Despite the state’s recent Democratic tilt in presidential elections, Pence said, “New Mexico is coming together, and we’re going to make Donald Trump the next president of the United States of America.”

Trump, he said, “embodies the spirit of America. Strong, freedom-loving, independent, optimistic and willing to fight every day for what makes America great again.”

Pence, who attended the sometimes testy presidential debate between Trump and Democrat challenger Hillary Clinton on Wednesday night, said its outcome was unquestionable. “From where I was sitting, Donald Trump won that debate,” he said.

Addressing Trump’s bombshell debate statement that he would not say whether he would accept the outcome of the presidential election, Pence said he and Trump would accept a “fair” election result.

“But we also reserve the right to contest and file a legal challenge in the case of a questionable result,” he said.

Like Trump, Pence blasted the media several times during his speech, telling the crowd, “When I get up in the morning, I have to turn on the television with a stick. I don’t know what’s going to be on there.”

“The mainstream media out there just continues to ignore just an avalanche of scandals pouring out of the years of the Clinton Foundation, her years as secretary of state and the private server and all the rest of that business,” he said. “So I thought tonight I might try to catch them up a little bit.”

Calling donations by private companies to the Clinton Foundation — while concurrently lobbying the State Department — an example of Clinton’s “standard issue Washington, D.C., conflict of interest,” Pence said a Trump administration would end “pay-to-play politics.” Turning to Clinton’s four years as secretary of state, Pence said Clinton was “the architect of failed foreign policy” that has emboldened terrorists and made the world more dangerous.

He said the military has shrunk dramatically under the Obama administration, making the nation less secure and showing that Clinton is unqualified to serve as commander in chief.

“I promise you that when Donald Trump becomes president of the United States, we’re going to rebuild our military,” he said.

The nation is mired in a weak recovery, Pence said, because of the Obama administration’s crippling economic policies.

“Hillary Clinton’s plan? More of the same,” he said.

He said Trump as president would “cut taxes across the board” and “end the death tax once and for all” as part of his plan to get the economy back on track — which includes renegotiating NAFTA and “getting out of the Trans Pacific deal.”

He also said a Trump administration would repeal what he called the “Not So Affordable Health Care” Act and replace it with “more consumer choices and free-market economics.”

Noting that the next president will choose at least one — and possibly three — Supreme Court justices, Pence said we need justices who will simply “uphold the Constitution of the United States” rather than take unconstitutional actions.

Voter fraud is real, he said, and the fairness of elections can be ensured by requiring voter ID — and by volunteering to assist in the electoral process.

Loretta Lamphere-Stewart, a longtime Republican from Ruidoso, said she appreciated that the rally started with a prayer, the national anthem and the Pledge of Allegiance, “And we didn’t have to apologize for it.”

“I thought it was awesome,” she said of Pence’s speech, adding that he was “positive, uplifting and very articulate — and not demeaning of his challenger.”

Robert Millner, a Vietnam veteran from Albuquerque who attended the rally with his wife, Tina, said he’s “extremely worried” about the direction America is headed, which is why he supports the Trump-Pence ticket.

“If he (Trump) doesn’t win, Lord help us,” Millner said.

He said he would have liked to hear Pence talk more about veterans and the men and women in the armed forces who have lost their military jobs because of reductions in force under President Obama.

“If our enemies think we’re weak, they pick on us,” he said.

All the points Pence addressed, Millner said — the economy, immigration, taxes — all “fit together” and are dependent on one another.

A spokeswoman for New Mexico’s Democrats said Pence simply parroted Trump.

“Pence came to New Mexico spreading the same dangerous rhetoric that he and Trump have pushed this entire election,” said Debra Hal-land, chairwoman of the Democratic Party of New Mexico.

“He reiterated his reckless claim that he might not accept the election results, he didn’t stand up for our Hispanic communities, he didn’t stand up for women, and he didn’t deliver a plan to make people’s lives better. It’s imperative we stop the horrific ideas spread by the Trump-Pence ticket, and vote for Hillary Clinton and all Democrats between now and Nov. 8.” Online

For a slideshow from Mike Pence’s rally at an Albuquerque hotel, go to ABQJournal.com
Copyright (c) 2016 Albuquerque Journal

