Race shaken by Trump's refusal to say if he'll accept results 
October 20, 2016 | Arizona Daily Star, The (Tucson, AZ) 
Author: Staff Writer 
Section: News 
245 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Donald Trump refused to say in debate that he will accept the results of next month's election if he loses to Hillary Clinton. The Democratic nominee declared Trump's resistance "horrifying." 
Trump had spent the days leading up to the third and final presidential debate warning voters that the election would be "rigged." Asked Wednesday evening whether he would accept the outcome if Clinton emerges victorious, he said: "I will tell you at the time. I'll keep you in suspense." 
Some Republicans recoiled at Trump's startling statement. South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham said his party's nominee was doing the country a "great disservice" by suggesting the election is rigged and Arizona Sen. Jeff Flake called Trump's comments "beyond the pale." 
Trump's assertions raise the prospect that millions of his supporters may not accept the results on Nov. 8 if he loses, thrusting the nation into uncharted territory. Free and fair elections, with the vanquished peacefully stepping aside for the victor, have been the underpinning of America's democratic tradition since the country's founding 240 years ago. 
There is no evidence of widespread voter fraud, and election officials across the country have denied and denounced Trump's charges. 
The Republican's stunning comments overshadowed the rest of the 90-minute debate, a contest that began calm and policy-focused, but devolved into a bitter and deeply personal confrontation, hewing to the pattern of the previous two face-offs. Trump called Clinton a "nasty woman," while the Democrat panned him as "unfit" to be commander in chief. 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Arizona Daily Star 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Staff Writer, 'Race shaken by Trump's refusal to say if he'll accept results', Arizona Daily Star, The (online), 20 Oct 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16028A80CAC606B0 
