
Protesters could have option to cast votes
Newspaper October 31, 2016 | Bismarck Tribune, The (ND)
Section: A 403 Words
Page: 1
Protesters could have option to cast votes
Morton County is reviewing the possibility that Dakota Access Pipeline demonstrators living in protest camps south of Mandan near the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe's reservation boundary may want to cast votes, according to Dawn Rhone, the county auditor.

Protest organizers recently told the Tribune they may want to vote in Morton County on Election Day and that hundreds may be willing to do so.

The main issues include documentation of a physical address as well as whether an individual has become a resident and given up residency elsewhere, Rhone said.

Forms of ID required under North Dakota law include a current driver's license, a state-issued ID card or a tribal ID with a current address.

"People who don't have an ID and meet residency requirements can file an affidavit," said Rhone, who is expecting to see an increase in affidavits compared to the past.

"I think the affidavit opens up the possibility of fraud," said Rhone, adding that instances of fraud are rare.

Fraudulently claiming residency in order to vote is a Class A misdemeanor with a maximum penalty of up to one year's imprisonment, a $3,000 fine or both.

Affidavits are a sworn statement by a voter that they are a qualified voter in their precinct. The Legislature eliminated the option in 2013. Voter ID laws passed in 2013 and 2015 prompted a lawsuit by several tribal members earlier this year, arguing that the laws were unconstitutional and provided an unfair burden on Native Americans.

A federal judge ruled in their favor in September. The secretary of state's office responded by returning to the affidavit option.

The process for checking affidavits is different than in the past. Previously, a postcard was mailed to all voters who had used an affidavit. If no response was given, it was assumed it was sent to the correct address.

Postcards returned to sender were followed up on; Rhone said the reason was usually the address being incorrect due to voter error or not having the correct apartment number on the affidavit.

With its re-implementation, Rhone said there's additional steps. The postcards will be mailed by Nov. 22, and the deadline for returning them is Dec. 9. Three follow-up calls will also be made to each voter.

Counties must turn in a spreadsheet of information to the secretary of state's office by Jan. 6 detailing the responses they received. Instances of potential voter fraud would be turned over to that county's state's attorney.

(Reach Nick Smith at 701-250-8255 or 701-223-8482 or at nick.smith@bismarcktribune.com.)
Copyright, 2016, The Bismarck Tribune
