
Machines pass the test
Newspaper October 31, 2016 | Bismarck Tribune, The (ND)
Section: A 521 Words
Page: 1
Machines pass the test
There is no expectation over voter fraud, and North Dakota elections are expected to go smoothly after months of preparation by election officials as well as training of poll workers and auditing of voting machines.

State and county officials are seeing their efforts to ensure a democratic process as absentee ballots, vote-by-mail ballots and now early voting is beginning across the state.

"On Nov. 8, we're looking at between 2,000 and 3,000 people that are working on Election Day," North Dakota Secretary of State Al Jaeger said. "It's all coming together."

As of Friday morning, more than 46,200 votes had been cast either by mail, absentee or at early voting precincts across the state.

Jaeger said his office is in regular contact with county officials, discussing what's required and what needs to be ready for Election Day. Training of poll workers is conducted on the county level. In state statute, a minimum of five poll workers are required at each polling precinct.

Morton County Auditor Dawn Rhone said more than 90 poll workers will be working in precincts across the county on Election Day.

Morton County's voting machines have been tested with no problems reported, and officials across the state say the overall integrity of elections is very high.

On a national level, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has been telling supporters on the campaign trail that the election is rigged against him and voter fraud may be widespread.

Jaeger dismisses claims of North Dakota's vote being in jeopardy.

"Those scanners are tested ahead of time," Jaeger said of voting machines.

The voting machines undergo test elections with pre-determined results, according to Jaeger, who said, if there are discrepancies in the test results, then it's addressed. Afterward, the machines are put away and sealed off from use.

"You certainly can't tamper with an isolated voting machine that's not connected to a network," Jaeger said.

Machines are also audited after the election.

Jaeger said it's a matter of waiting and seeing to determine how many voters will end up using affidavits, an option for those who don't have a state ID. Four years ago, about 10,500 were received; he said about two-thirds of those were submitted in Grand Forks and Cass counties, where the University of North Dakota and North Dakota State University are located, respectively.

Burleigh County Auditor Kevin Glatt agreed that voter fraud isn't a major concern.

"In my 29 years, it's been very, very limited. Almost non-existent," Glatt said.

Between Oct. 11 and Oct. 20, a total of 11,501 votes were put through the county's voting machines without any issues being detected, according to Glatt, who said the successful testing of voting machines is testament to the integrity of local election preparation.

More than 300 election workers in Burleigh County will receive training on opening and closing the polls, checking identification, recording voters in the paper and electronic voter rolls.

"There's a lot of moving pieces," Glatt said.

(Reach Nick Smith at 701-250-8255 or 701-223-8482 or at nick.smith@bismarcktribune.com.)

Election information

North Dakota Secretary of State's office,www.sos.nd.gov,Main office: (701) 328-2900,Burleigh County Auditor,http://www.co.burleigh.nd.us/departments/auditor/,Office: (701) 222-6718,Morton County Auditor,http://www.co.morton.nd.us/ and click "County Departments" link for auditor's office link,Office: (701) 667-3300
Copyright, 2016, The Bismarck Tribune
