ELECTION 2016; Other winners, losers in the big race; Presidential campaign damaged people and institutions. But some came out ahead.
Author: Megerian, Chris
Publication info: Los Angeles Times ; Los Angeles, Calif. [Los Angeles, Calif]09 Nov 2016: A.6.
ProQuest document link
Abstract:
Yet he remained a force until the end, using his political clout to drag the Democratic Party further to the left on issues such as increasing college affordability and raising the minimum wage. First Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a Florida congresswoman, faced withering criticism for appearing to stack the deck in Clinton's favor during the primary.
Links:
Full Text Finder
Full text:
Even before the election results were tallied, some clear winners and losers emerged from the 2016 presidential campaign.
Not many survived this tumultuous race with their reputations intact. Republicans performed pretzel-like contortions to accommodate Donald Trump, and Democratic leadership was bruised by a series of controversies that raised questions about the fairness of its primary process.
Meanwhile, Americans continued to lose faith in their most important institutions.
--
Winners
Bernie Sanders: The Vermont senator started his campaign for president as a curiosity, a septuagenarian socialist with little influence in Congress. But his unkempt demeanor and passionate message about economic inequality struck a chord with disaffected young voters and unsatisfied liberals who viewed Hillary Clinton as insufficiently honest or progressive.
After a near-tie in Iowa and a resounding victory in New Hampshire, Sanders fell behind and never seriously threatened Clinton's chances at the nomination. Yet he remained a force until the end, using his political clout to drag the Democratic Party further to the left on issues such as increasing college affordability and raising the minimum wage.
Michelle Obama: Once a reluctant political wife, the first lady was a force to be reckoned with on the campaign trail. It began with a stirring speech at the Democratic convention, which included a phrase that became a mantra for Clinton's team: "When they go low, we go high." But Obama solidified her standing as Democrats' moral messenger in October when she targeted Trump's boasts about sexual assault, which were revealed in a leaked recording from "Access Hollywood." In a bluntly emotional speech, Obama said she was "shaken to her core."
"Now is the time for all of us to stand up and say, enough is enough. This has got to stop right now," she said.
Megyn Kelly: Fox News was rocked this year when longtime chief Roger Ailes was ousted over a series of sexual harassment allegations. The scandal tarnished not only Ailes but also others at the conservative network who rushed to his defense even as more stories of his inappropriate behavior emerged.
But anchor Kelly helped bring Ailes' reign to an end by quietly telling investigators that she had been the victim of his unwanted advances. It was one episode in a turbulent year for Kelly, which included a barrage of insults from Trump after she aggressively questioned him in a primary debate about his track record of making offensive and dismissive comments about women.
Now, her star power intact, she's poised to sign a lucrative new contract with Fox News.
--
Losers
Reince Priebus: When Mitt Romney lost the 2012 election, the Republican National Committee chairman pledged to chart a new course for his party. In a widely circulated "autopsy report," Priebus said Republicans must reach out to minorities in a country that was becoming more diverse, and he urged compromise on controversial immigration policies.
None of that came to pass. Instead, Republicans nominated Trump, who alienated blacks, Latinos and women. Polls showed that even college-educated white voters, a group that had backed Republicans for decades, were leaning toward Clinton.
Ted Cruz: It wasn't long ago that the Texas senator took a stand, refusing to endorse Trump in a high-profile speech at the Republican convention. Cruz was positioning himself as someone who could lead conservatives in exile disappointed by Trump's lack of ideological fervor.
But Cruz threw all that away in September when he issued a widely mocked endorsement of Trump. It remains to be seen how wide the fallout will be.
Democratic Party leaders: It was a rough year for chairwomen of the Democratic National Committee. First Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a Florida congresswoman, faced withering criticism for appearing to stack the deck in Clinton's favor during the primary. That perception only grew when WikiLeaks released hacked emails showing her staff members discussing ways to undermine Sanders. Schultz was ousted and denied a speaking role at the party's convention. Her interim replacement, Donna Brazile, worked to mend fences but ran into her own WikiLeaks-related problems. More hacked emails showed she leaked questions to Clinton's team before primary debates while she worked as a CNN contributor.
Democratic institutions: If there was a word of the year, it was "rigged." At one point or another, almost every important American institution was accused of being rigged -- the two major political parties, Wall Street, the election process, the polls, the media, the FBI.
Democracy hinges on the public's faith in institutions, and that took a beating during this fractious campaign. Trump was the primary instigator, sometimes using a flamethrower of falsehoods to torch what he saw as standing between him and a shot at the White House. He spread conspiracies about rampant voter fraud and accused reporters of unfairly covering his campaign.
Federal law enforcement took a bipartisan drubbing. When FBI Director James B. Comey declined to recommend criminal charges against Clinton over her handling of classified material, Trump accused him of covering for her.
Then when Comey announced Oct. 28 that investigators were taking a look at newly discovered emails, it was Democrats' turn to raise questions about his motivations. By the time he announced he was standing behind his original recommendation of no charges, Comey had managed to anger all sides.
--
chris.megerian@latimes.com
Twitter: @chrismegerian
Illustration
Caption: PHOTO: BERNIE SANDERS, popular with young voters and liberals, lost the Democratic presidential nomination but gained clout and pulled the party further to the left.; PHOTOGRAPHER:Marcus Yam Los Angeles Times; PHOTO: UNDER Reince Priebus' watch, the GOP alienated key groups of voters.; PHOTOGRAPHER:Brian van der Brug L.A. Times; PHOTO: FIRST LADY Michelle Obama emerged as a powerful political voice.; PHOTOGRAPHER:Jim Cole Associated Press
Subject: Political conventions; Presidential elections; Political campaigns; Candidates; Nominations; Primaries & caucuses; Sex crimes; Political parties; Election results
Company / organization: Name: Fox News Channel; NAICS: 515120; Name: Democratic Party; NAICS: 813940
Identifier / keyword: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (2016)
Publication title: Los Angeles Times; Los Angeles, Calif.
Pages: A.6
Publication year: 2016
Publication date: Nov 9, 2016
Section: Main News; Part A; National Desk
Publisher: Los Angeles Times Communications LLC
Place of publication: Los Angeles, Calif.
Country of publication: United States, Los Angeles, Calif.
Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN: 04583035
Source type: Newspapers
Language of publication: English
Document type: News
ProQuest document ID: 1837152521
Document URL: https://search.proquest.com/docview/1837152521?accountid=14472
Copyright: (Copyright (c) 2016 Los Angeles Times)
Last updated: 2017-11-24
Database: Global Newsstream
