Assembly GOP leader has faith in vote system; Chad Mayes doesn't share Donald Trump's view of 'serious' fraud.
Author: Myers, John
Publication info: Los Angeles Times ; Los Angeles, Calif. [Los Angeles, Calif]17 Dec 2016: B.5.
ProQuest document link
Abstract:
Republicans have demanded a new look, in particular, at the online voter registration site maintained by the secretary of state's office.
Links:
Full Text Finder
Full text:
Contradicting claims made by President-elect Donald Trump, the state Assembly's top Republican said Wednesday that he doesn't believe there was rampant voter fraud in California on Nov. 8.
"I don't think there's widespread fraud in California," said Chad Mayes (R-Yucca Valley) in an interview with The Times in Sacramento.
In a Nov. 27 tweet, Trump referred to "serious voter fraud" in California and two other states -- an allegation without any evidence to support it. It was Trump's first and only comment about the results in California, which he lost to Hillary Clinton by almost 4.3 million votes.
Mayes, who declined to say how he cast his ballot for president, voiced concerns about reports of some isolated incidents involving either voting errors or mistaken registration. Republicans have demanded a new look, in particular, at the online voter registration site maintained by the secretary of state's office.
"Do I think that there are other ways that folks try to game the system?" Mayes said. "Maybe. But I do think the people that vote, and if they're legal to be able to vote, that their vote is cast appropriately and it's counted appropriately."
Mayes, who talked about priorities including transportation and healthcare benefits, now leads a GOP caucus that has shrunk since the previous two-year session of the Legislature. Republicans now hold only 25 Assembly seats, a net loss of two lawmakers after Democrats won a supermajority of both houses.
But Mayes did not say he believed there was any evidence of a systemic problem that would undermine the integrity of California elections.
"From what I've seen, it's been very clear that we've got a good system," Mayes said.
--
john.myers@latimes.com
Subject: Election results; Voter fraud; Voting machines; Presidential elections
Location: California
Identifier / keyword: CALIFORNIA ELECTION FRAUD LEGISLATORS REPUBLICAN PARTY CALIFORNIA ASSEMBLY
Publication title: Los Angeles Times; Los Angeles, Calif.
Pages: B.5
Publication year: 2016
Publication date: Dec 17, 2016
Dateline: SACRAMENTO
Section: California; Part B; Local Desk
Publisher: Los Angeles Times Communications LLC
Place of publication: Los Angeles, Ca lif.
Country of publication: United States, Los Angeles, Calif.
Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN: 04583035
Source type: Newspapers
Language of publication: English
Document type: News
ProQuest document ID: 1849625780
Document URL: https://search.proquest.com/docview/1849625780?accountid=14472
Copyright: (Copyright (c) 2016 Los Angeles Times)
Last updated: 2017-11-24
Database: Global Newsstream
