CITY & STATE; State certifies election results; A historic 14.6 million ballots were cast free of fraud, official says.
Author: Ulloa, Jazmine
Publication info: Los Angeles Times ; Los Angeles, Calif. [Los Angeles, Calif]18 Dec 2016: B.4.
ProQuest document link
Abstract:
Padilla told The Times' editorial board Thursday that he believes it's wrong to consider overhauling some parts of federal voting law without also weighing the merits of the electoral college in the modern era.
Links:
Full Text Finder
Full text:
California Secretary of State Alex Padilla on Friday certified a record-breaking count of 14.6 million ballots cast statewide, calling the November 2016 election "smooth" and free of compromises or breaches.
Padilla, a Democrat who endorsed Hillary Clinton during the primary season, once more disputed a claim by President-elect Donald Trump of rampant voter fraud statewide, saying it was "absolutely false" and without basis or evidence.
Padilla would not speculate as to what could happen Monday, when the members of the electoral college across the nation cast their votes for president. But he said he hoped that process in California would go as smoothly as the general election.
"Bottom line, I can assure you that the elections officials at the state level and across all 58 counties pride themselves on professionalism," he said. "We stand by the results. We stand by the process, and we stand by protecting people's voting rights in California."
Padilla told The Times' editorial board Thursday that he believes it's wrong to consider overhauling some parts of federal voting law without also weighing the merits of the electoral college in the modern era. But he declined to say whether he thinks -- as some have suggested -- that presidential electors in states across the nation should be allowed to vote their conscience when they meet this week. California law requires the 55 electors chosen by Democrats to vote for the nominees of their party.
"I think the state law is pretty clear in California on what electors are supposed to do," he said.
Election results show Clinton won the state with 62.2% of the popular vote -- 4.2 million votes over Trump, the largest margin of victory for a presidential candidate since 1936.
The last time California saw a record number of ballots cast was in 2008, when 13.7 million votes were counted. Registered voter turnout in November reached more than 75%, with nearly 58% of voters casting their ballots by mail.
--
jazmine.ulloa@latimes.com
Times staff writer John Myers contributed to this report.
Subject: Voting machines; Voter behavior; State laws
Location: California
Identifier / keyword: CALIFORNIA SECRETARY OF STATE VOTING BALLOTS ELECTION FRAUD
Publication title: Los Angeles Times; Los Angeles, Calif.
Pages: B.4
Publication year: 2016
Publication date: Dec 18, 2016
Dateline: SACRAMENTO
Section: California; Part B; Local Desk
Publisher: Los Angeles Times Communications LLC
Place of publication: Los Angeles, Calif.
Country of publication: United States, Los Angeles, Calif.
Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN: 04583035
Source type: Newspapers
Language of publication: English
Document type: News
ProQuest document ID: 1849820143
Document URL: https://search.proquest.com/docview/1849820143?accountid=14472
Copyright: (Copyright (c) 2016 Los Angeles Times)
Last updated: 2017-11-23
Database: Global Newsstream
