Alarcon sees no 'path to victory'; Former councilman, up against Rep. Tony Cardenas, has not campaigned since the June primary.
Author: Mai-Duc, Christine
Publication info: Los Angeles Times ; Los Angeles, Calif. [Los Angeles, Calif]14 Oct 2016: B.1.
ProQuest document link
Abstract:
In April, prosecutors announced that they would retry Alarcon and his wife, Flora, for the original convictions that had landed him 51 days of house arrest and barred him from holding state office ever again.
Links:
Full Text Finder
Full text:
Former L.A. City Councilman Richard Alarcon is facing Rep. Tony Cardenas (D-Los Angeles) in an intraparty contest that was expected to pit two seasoned Latino politicians against each other in the 29th Congressional District.
But only one of them is running a campaign for the House seat.
Between July 1 and Sept. 30, Alarcon reported raising $29.80 in contributions. He has just $140.40 in his campaign account, according to a report filed with the Federal Election Commission.
Cardenas has not filed a report for that period, but as of June 30 he had raised more than $1.2 million, with nearly $316,000 cash on hand.
Alarcon stunned many in March when he announced, just weeks after having convictions for voter fraud and perjury thrown out, that he was running against the two-term congressman.
But in the June primary, with a field of five candidates, Cardenas dominated with 61% of the vote. Alarcon brought in just 13%, enough to finish second and go on to the general election.
Since then, Alarcon said, he hasn't held any campaign fundraisers or events, and his campaign Facebook page went silent after June 7, the day of the primary.
"I thought it would be difficult, if not impossible, for me to raise money and explain to my contributors a path to victory," Alarcon said in a phone interview.
Alarcon said he threw his hat into the race just three months ahead of the June primary because he was concerned that Cardenas might become embroiled in an FBI investigation that resulted in the subpoena of at least one of the congressman's staffers. Earlier this year, Cardenas reported spending 40% of his reelection fund on legal fees, but his attorney denied that Cardenas was the focus of the ongoing probe.
If Cardenas was implicated, Alarcon said, he wanted another seasoned Democrat to be waiting in the wings to run for office. But with less than a month to go in the election, it doesn't appear that will happen.
Alarcon says he hasn't suspended his campaign, but he is not "actively campaigning."
"Both of us are well-known, established elected officials. So I trust the voters were comfortable with Tony."
Alarcon himself has faced an ongoing legal roller coaster: In April, prosecutors announced that they would retry Alarcon and his wife, Flora, for the original convictions that had landed him 51 days of house arrest and barred him from holding state office ever again.
Richard Lasting, Alarcon's attorney, says they've asked the judge to dismiss the case. A hearing on that is set for Nov. 4, four days before the election.
--
christine.maiduc@latimes.com
Illustration
Caption: PHOTO: CHALLENGER Richard Alarcon has $140.40 in his campaign account.; PHOTOGRAPHER:Luis Sinco Los Angeles Times; PHOTO: INCUMBENT Rep. Tony Cardenas won 61% of votes in the primary.; PHOTOGRAPHER:Tom Williams CQ-Roll Call Inc.
Subject: Congressional elections; Primaries & caucuses; Criminal investigations; Presidents
Identifier / keyword: ALARCON, RICHARD CARDENAS, TONY CALIFORNIA CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT 29 POLITICAL CANDIDATES POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS
Publication title: Los Angeles Times; Los Angeles, Calif.
Pages: B.1
Publication year: 2016
Publication date: Oct 14, 2016
Section: California; Part B; Local Desk
Publisher: Los Angeles Times Communications LLC
Place of publication: Los Angeles, Calif.
Country of publication: United States, Los Angeles, Calif.
Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN: 04583035
Source type: Newspapers
Language of publication: English
Document type: News
ProQuest document ID: 1828441600
Document URL: https://search.proquest.com/docview/1828441600?accountid=14472
Copyright: (Copyright (c) 2016 Los Angeles Times)
Last updated: 2017-11-23
Database: Global Newsstream
