Army of lawyers is ready; GOP and Democrats are determined to ensure a fair election.
Author: Savage, David G
Publication info: Los Angeles Times ; Los Angeles, Calif. [Los Angeles, Calif]07 Nov 2016: A.10.
ProQuest document link
Abstract:
In North Carolina and Texas, civil rights lawyers are working to make sure that eligible and registered voters are not blocked from casting ballots because they do not have a specific photo ID card. Democratic Party lawyers went before a judge in New Jersey on Friday seeking a court order that would hold officials of the Republican National Committee in contempt if they supported or participated in what they call Donald Trump's "voter intimidation program."
Links:
Full Text Finder
Full text:
In the final days before the election, lawyers for the two major political parties are working to make sure voting is fair and free -- but also readying to do battle if the outcome is in dispute.
In Philadelphia, where Democrats enjoy overwhelming majorities in many districts, Republican lawyers are scrambling to make sure they have authorized poll watchers at nearly all of the city's 1,682 polling places. But it's not so simple.
"I'm absolutely concerned when one party controls the precinct," said Linda Kerns, a Republican lawyer in Philadelphia. "But it's not too easy to find Republicans in some of these precincts."
In North Carolina and Texas, civil rights lawyers are working to make sure that eligible and registered voters are not blocked from casting ballots because they do not have a specific photo ID card. Earlier this year, federal courts struck down GOP-backed laws in both states that had imposed photo ID rules. Judges determined that the burden of the new rules fell unfairly on minority voters.
"It's frustrating at this point to hear of county officials or poll workers not complying with the decisions," said Kristen Clarke, president of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law.
Democratic Party lawyers went before a judge in New Jersey on Friday seeking a court order that would hold officials of the Republican National Committee in contempt if they supported or participated in what they call Donald Trump's "voter intimidation program." The judge turned them down Saturday.
But their legal motion put a new spotlight on a 34-year-old consent decree that bars the RNC from undertaking "any ballot security activities" directed at black or Latino voters. Three years ago, the RNC appealed to the Supreme Court and said the consent decree was "antiquated" and should be ended. The justices left the decree intact for another national election.
Democratic Party lawyers had argued that the GOP, through its presidential nominee, had been violating the decree. Trump has repeatedly urged his supporters to "go down to certain areas and watch and make sure other people don't come in and vote five times."
"Take a look at Philadelphia, what's been going on. Take a look at Chicago; take a look at St. Louis," Trump said on Oct. 18. "You see things happening that are horrendous." He provided no details or evidence to support his claims.
The Republican Party's top lawyers insisted "the RNC and the Donald J. Trump campaign are separate entities." John R. Phillippe Jr., the party's general counsel, said he sent a memo to all the party's staff saying the "RNC has no role and will not partake in any voter fraud or poll watching activities" and will not participate in "any ballot security efforts by other organizations."
Meanwhile, both parties have signed up lawyers to help if problems arise. For many, it simply means being on call on election day so they can spring into action if a state vote count is in dispute.
The Republican National Lawyers Assn. says its members are ready to go if requested by the party or its candidates. "The RNLA expects to have over 1,000 lawyers trained and active in elections across the country," said Michael Thielen, the group's executive director.
In the disputed 2000 election, armies of lawyers descended on Florida amid questions over the counting of paper ballots and a razor-close margin. The Supreme Court ultimately decided George W. Bush vs. Al Gore in favor of Bush.
At the Washington headquarters of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, a conference room has been buzzing as about 25 lawyers and law students take calls from voters and election workers.
The "election protection hotline" began in 2002, and the call volume has grown with each election cycle. Clarke said the largest numbers of calls had come from Texas, Florida, North Carolina and Georgia, four states that had been under the close scrutiny of the Voting Rights Act until the Supreme Court relaxed the oversight provision in 2013.
"We are living through the fallout from the court's decision to gut the Voting Rights Act," she said.
Lawyers monitoring the calls say so far they have heard of only scattered and minor reports of problems at early-voting sites, including people using bullhorns to address voters. They will be on full alert Tuesday.
"We continue to be very worried about voter intimidation and challenges, particularly given the national rhetoric over 'rigged' elections," said Allison Riggs, a lawyer with the Southern Coalition for Social Justice in Durham, N.C. She was referring to Trump's repeated claims that the race has been rigged for Hillary Clinton by the media and the Washington establishment.
In Philadelphia, Democratic and Republican lawyers say they can usually work together to resolve election day problems.
"We have the same basic goal: that every single person who is qualified can vote without being harassed or abused," said Steven Kaplan, a lawyer who works for the Democrats.
He said he was not worried that Trump supporters might come into the city's minority neighborhoods and harass voters.
"Have you been to Philadelphia?" he asked. "So people will come in from the suburbs and cause a problem in the neighborhoods? You would have to very stupid to try that."
--
david.savage@latimes.com
Subject: Voting machines; Consent decrees; Civil rights; Attorneys; Political parties; Voting Rights Act
Location: Texas North Carolina
Company / organization: Name: Democratic Party; NAICS: 813940; Name: Republican Party; NAICS: 813940
Identifier / keyword: CLINTON, HILLARY TRUMP, DONALD J POLLING STATIONS ELECTION FRAUD MONITORS ATTORNEYS DEMOCRATIC PARTY PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES REPUBLICAN PARTY
Publication title: Los Angeles Times; Los Angeles, Calif.
Pages: A.10
Publication year: 2016
Publication date: Nov 7, 2016
Dateline: WASHINGTON
Section: Main News; Part A; National Desk
Publisher: Los Angeles Times Communications LLC
Place of publication: Los Angeles, Calif.
Country of publication: United States, Los Angeles, Calif.
Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN: 04583035
Source type: Newspapers
Language of publication: English
Document type: News
ProQuest document ID: 1836545099
Document URL: https://search.proquest.com/docview/1836545099?accountid=14472
Copyright: (Copyright (c) 2016 Los Angeles Times)
Last updated: 2017-11-24
Database: Global Newsstream
