ELECTION 2016; Tensions high at polls but few problems; Despite fears of fraud and intimidation, balloting proceeds as usual for most part.
Author: Tanfani, Joseph; Kaleem, Jaweed
Publication info: Los Angeles Times ; Los Angeles, Calif. [Los Angeles, Calif]09 Nov 2016: A.7.
ProQuest document link
Abstract:
With tensions high, more than 30,000 calls about malfunctioning machines, alleged voter intimidation and other problems poured into a hotline set up by civil rights and legal aid groups.
Links:
Full Text Finder
Full text:
After a dark presidential campaign, roiled by warnings of widespread voting fraud and intimidation, hundreds of Justice Department and other lawyers stood ready Tuesday for a stormy election day.
For the most part, they didn't get it.
With tensions high, more than 30,000 calls about malfunctioning machines, alleged voter intimidation and other problems poured into a hotline set up by civil rights and legal aid groups.
Callers complained of signs put up to scare black voters in Ohio, of faulty voting machines in North Carolina and other states, of arguments and snubbed voters in Florida, and of late-opening polling places and other snafus in Philadelphia.
But as the day wore on, sunny and warm over much of the country, there was little out of the ordinary.
In Broward County, Fla., police were called after a scuffle broke out between two election clerks, and they were fired. In Los Angeles County, a shooting left one person dead near a polling place in Azusa. The county registrar told voters to avoid the area and go to alternative polling stations.
In Fort Bend County, Texas, the sheriff's office said it arrested a man who tried to vote twice. "Claimed he worked for Trump and was testing the system," the sheriff's office tweeted.
In African American neighborhoods in overwhelmingly Democratic Philadelphia, a city Donald Trump had repeatedly called a nest of voting fraud, there was no army of his rural supporters outside polling places, as local officials had feared.
"We have no founded complaints of intimidation, no founded complaints of voter fraud, and we have no apocalypse of zombies voting all over town," Dist. Atty. R. Seth Williams said at a news conference.
Several hundred men volunteered to stand outside polling places in African American neighborhoods to watch for trouble from outsiders -- and didn't find much, if any.
"My job is to make sure there's no disturbance when people come to vote," said Howard Walker, 76, a deacon at Enon Tabernacle Baptist Church, outside a polling place in the Mount Airy neighborhood. "I don't see that really happening."
That appeared to be the case elsewhere.
"We're seeing various kinds of complaints, from police officers being too close to the polls to overzealous partisans," said Myrna Perez, a lawyer from the New York-based Brennan Center for Justice who joined an Election Protection legal aid project that involved dozens of civil rights groups. Perez reported some complaints of attempted voter intimidation but no sign of a "concerted" campaign.
Kristen Clarke, president of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, said Election Protection lawyers logged a "substantial" number of complaints from Florida, including an "aggressively assembled" group outside a polling site in Hollywood, near Miami.
In Palm Beach County, some students at Florida Atlantic University were told they could not vote because their dorms didn't count as a legal address; they were given provisional ballots.
"We're going to dig into all these reports more closely and carefully," Clarke said. "But most importantly, we want to ensure that voters are able to cast a ballot free from intimidation or harassment, which requires making sure that unauthorized people are not inside our polls today."
Homeland Security Department officials reported no sign that computer hackers had attacked polling systems at the nation's 9,000 voting districts.
That fear had grown after a campaign that, U.S. intelligence officials say, saw Russian-backed hackers steal and leak emails from Democratic officials, including Hillary Clinton's campaign manager, in an effort to interfere with the election.
Long lines and voting machine glitches were common, a regular problem in a nation with aging election machinery. Broken or balky machines were reported in Utah, New York, Illinois, Kentucky, Texas, Virginia, Ohio, Connecticut and especially North Carolina.
Electionland, a voting monitoring project, reported glitches with optical scanners in seven counties in North Carolina. The state elections board instructed Durham County officials to use paper ballots instead and extended closing time at several polling places.
Officials in Dover, N.H., also extended voting hours after an email sent the wrong poll information to voters there.
Civil rights groups reported confusion in Alabama and other Southern states with new voter ID rules since the last presidential election. In some cases, voters did not realize their polling locations had changed since 2014.
Trump filed a suit Tuesday in Nevada, saying polls were wrongly kept open late during early voting in the Las Vegas area, where Clinton had strong support. A judge rejected a request by Trump's attorneys for the names of poll workers at sites where Trump alleged improper voting took place.
--
joseph.tanfani@latimes.com
jaweed.kaleem@latimes.com
Illustration
Caption: PHOTO: VOTERS WAIT at a polling place in Durham, N.C., where a computer glitched caused a delay.; PHOTOGRAPHER:Sara D. Davis Getty Images
Subject: Presidential elections; Electoral reform; Civil rights; Fraud; Local elections
Location: Florida
Identifier / keyword: ELECTIONS (2016) POLLING STATIONS VOTING
Publication title: Los Angeles Times; Los Angeles, Calif.
Pages: A.7
Publication year: 2016
Publication date: Nov 9, 2016
Dateline: PHILADELPHIA
Section: Main News; Part A; National Desk
Publisher: Los Angeles Times Communications LLC
Place of publication: Los Angeles, Calif.
Country of publication: United States, Los Angeles, Calif.
Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN: 04583035
Source type: Newspapers
Language of publication: English
Document type: News
ProQuest document ID: 1837153056
Document URL: https://search.proquest.com/docview/1837153056?accountid=14472
Copyright: (Copyright (c) 2016 Los Angeles Times)
Last updated: 2017-11-24
Database: Global Newsstream
