
Two WVU law professors oppose Sessions Faculty members - join more than 1,400 educators across U.S. in signing letter - condemning Trump’s pick for attorney general
Newspaper January 12, 2017 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Author: Jake Jarvis Staff writer Section: News 403 Words
Page: P2A
Two WVU law professors oppose Sessions Faculty members - join more than 1,400 educators across U.S. in signing letter - condemning Trump’s pick for attorney general
Two law professors at West Virginia University signed a letter this week urging the U.S. Senate to not confirm President-elect Donald Trump's nominee for attorney general.

Camille Riley and Grace Wigal, both faculty members at the school's College of Law, signed the letter with more than 1,400 other law professors across 49 states, all condemning the nomination of Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., to be the country's top law enforcement official.

The letter was sent Monday to a Senate committee reviewing the Sessions' nomination, a day before his hearings began. The hearings continued Wednesday.

Wigal, a teaching professor emeritus at the school, said in an email that there were several reasons she couldn't support Sessions as the country's attorney general, including his past skepticism of climate change and actions on education.

As Alabama's attorney general, before he joined the U.S. Senate, Sessions defended the state's education funding formula which critics said "gave nearly twice as much money per student to those in more affluent, white neighborhoods as it did to students in poorer, largely minority communities, according to PBS NewsHour.

"In addition, his opposition to the 2009 stimulus bill (designed to save our economy and the jobs of the little guy), the Affordable Care Act, same-sex marriage, medical marijuana, and stem cell research demonstrates a lack of empathy for those who struggle in their daily lives and who just want to live a relatively normal life, Wigal wrote in an email. "How can this man be expected to strive for justice for all?

The letter Wigal signed outlined different reasons to not support Sessions' nomination, including a previous bipartisan vote in 1986 which blocked Sessions from becoming a federal judge. The letter said statements he made at that time "reflected prejudice against African Americans.

"Some of us have concerns about his misguided prosecution of three civil rights activists for voter fraud in Alabama in 1985, and his consistent promotion of the myth of voter-impersonation fraud. Some of us have concerns about his support for building a wall along our country's southern border, the letter reads. "Some of us have concerns about his robust support for regressive drug policies that have fueled mass incarceration.

"All of us believe it is unacceptable for someone with Senator Sessions' record to lead the Department of Justice.

Riley, an associate professor law at the school, did not return a request for comment.

Reach Jake Jarvis at 304-348-7939, jake.jarvis@wvgazettemail.com, Facebook.com/newsroomjake or follow @NewsroomJake on Twitter.
Copyright, 2017, Charleston Newspapers
