
Tennant, NASS refute claims of rigged election
Newspaper October 19, 2016 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Author: Phil Kabler Staff writer Section: News 339 Words
Page: P1C
Tennant, NASS refute claims of rigged election
Secretary of State Natalie Tennant joined with other members of the National Association of Secretaries of State in issuing a statement Tuesday defending the integrity of the election process, in light of claims by Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump that the election is rigged.

"The members of the National Association of Secretaries of State (NASS) cannot allow unsubstantiated claims calling into question the systemic integrity of the election process to shake voter confidence or disrupt voting in the run-up to Election Day on November 8th, the statement says.

"With concerns about rigging' and hacking' elections permeating media coverage of the presidential campaigns, state election chiefs want to assure Americans that our process is fairly administered and well-secured, with built-in structural safeguards to ensure honest outcomes and accurate results.

Tennant said Tuesday that Trump's claims are outrageous and hurtful.

"For someone to say the election is rigged without any facts or any evidence is the equivalent of yelling fire' in a crowded theater, and it's disrespectful to the men and women who died for this democracy, she said.

She said the unsubstantiated claims are an affront to elections workers in her office, in county clerk's offices around the state, and to some 9,000 poll workers at the precinct level.

"I believe in the county clerks, and I believe in our poll workers, Tennant said, adding, "If someone questions the process, why don't they sign up to be a poll worker?

She said there are multiple safeguards built into the voting process in West Virginia, including having freestanding voting machines that are not connected to the Internet or to other voting machines, and produce paper copies of each ballot cast for verification.

Tennant said the NASS decided it needed to issue a statement upholding the integrity of the election process, in light of Trump's claims of large-scale voter fraud that are rigging the election against him.

"It's not enough for us to say, 'No, the elections are not rigged,'" she said.

Reach Phil Kabler at philk@wvgazettemail.com, 304-348-1220 or follow @PhilKabler on Twitter.
Copyright, 2016, Charleston Newspapers
