
Clerks: Voter intimidation not a concern Secretary - of state reminder: Voter ID law not effective until 2018
Newspaper November 8, 2016 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Author: Erin Beck Staff writer Section: News 827 Words
Page: P1A
Clerks: Voter intimidation not a concern Secretary - of state reminder: Voter ID law not effective until 2018
While presidential nominee Donald Trump has repeatedly insisted that the election is "rigged" and encouraged his supporters to watch polling places in "certain areas, several county clerks in West Virginia said Monday they aren't worried about people intimidating voters on Election Day.

Harrison County Clerk Susan Thomas said she does expect an uptick in complaints on Election Day, though, because of the current political climate. She said she expected that "from the first time somebody uttered the word rigged.'

She said she already has enough trouble convincing Harrison County voters that electronic voting is secure.

"We'd like to go completely to electronic, and then that comes out and it just kind of shoots you in the foot, she said.

Clerks in several counties said they had not received reports of any voter intimidation during the early voting period, which ended Saturday.

However, at least in one county, there were some issues during the May primary.

Numerous people went to about four precincts in Monongalia County and, while they remained outside of a 300-foot-radius, they silently watched voters, County Clerk Carye Blaney said.

Others, meanwhile, broke the law and approached voters within the 300-foot radius and passed out fliers, she said. Some remained outside of the radius but refused to leave when the owners of the property asked them to do so.

Blaney said she believes most of the activists were supporters of the Trump campaign.

She said Monday that she has been in touch with the county sheriff's office about making sure people aren't electioneering within the 300-foot radius or against the wishes of the voting location property owners on Election Day this time. She said deputies are prepared to ask people who violate the law to leave.

"We have already taken steps for the general election to eliminate that as much as possible, she said.

Jean Simers, Calhoun County clerk, said her office has seen a record 817 early voters.

"Everybody in Calhoun County knows everybody, she said. "I can't imagine [intimidation] happening.

Direl Baker, Lincoln County clerk, said employees who are charged with traveling to polling places and assisting with any problems will be able to look out for it, though.

"I will mention it to them, he said.

Kanawha County Clerk Vera McCormick said she isn't concerned, but added that the Kanawha County Sheriff's Office does assign four detectives to watch out for problems on Election Day.

"I think we have everything covered, and we didn't have any problems in the primary, she said. "I think our voters - most of them - we've got to give them respect, too. They know the law, and we really don't have people trying to break the law to get into precincts that way.

Federal law states that "no person ... shall intimidate, threaten, coerce ...any other person for the purpose of interfering with the right of [that] person to vote or to vote as he may choose. Using "force, fraud, menace or intimidation to prevent someone from voting is also against state law and punishable by up to a year in prison.

According to the American Civil Liberties Union, while voter intimidation is not common, it can include aggressively questioning someone about their qualifications to vote, pretending to be an elections official, spreading false information about voter requirements, displaying false or misleading signs about voter fraud, and other harassment.

Voter intimidation can be reported through the Election Protection Hotline at 1-866-OUR-VOTE or the U.S. Department of Justice Voting Rights Hotline at 800-253-3931, as well as to elections officials.

People who believe their voting rights have been violated can also contact the West Virginia Secretary of State's Office at 304-558-6000 or 866-SOS-VOTE.

In a news release Monday, Secretary of State Natalie Tennant asked voters to immediately contact a poll worker, their county clerk or the Secretary of State's Office if they feel those rights have been violated or if they believe they have witnessed an election law violation.

Briana Wilson, spokeswoman for the Secretary of State's Office, encouraged voters to start with local officials if they experience problems.

Wilson also reminded voters that, while the state Legislature did pass a voter-ID law during the past session, it doesn't take effect until January 2018. No one should be asking to see a photo ID from a voter unless it is that person's first time voting, Wilson said.

The Secretary of State's Office will also have dozens of liaisons dispatched across West Virginia on Election Day. These liaisons will be moving from precinct to precinct and county to county, speaking with poll workers, providing status updates and monitoring for any election law violations.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Gabriele Wohl will serve as the district election officer for the Southern District of West Virginia and can be reached on Election Day at 304-345-2200.

The ACLU of West Virginia is also staffing a hotline on Election Day for voters who experience problems. The number is 304-345-9262.

Reach Erin Beck at erin.beck@wvgazettemail.com, 304-348-5163, Facebook.com/erinbeckwv or follow @erinbeckwv on Twitter.
Copyright, 2016, Charleston Newspapers
