
W.VA. SUPREME COURT Court denies Logan judge's - election appeal
Newspaper December 1, 2016 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Author: Kate White Staff writer Section: News 777 Words
Page: P1A
W.VA. SUPREME COURT Court denies Logan judge's - election appeal
West Virginia Supreme Court justices Wednesday denied a Logan County circuit judge's attempt to remain on the bench and wrote that voters can't be penalized because of errors made by poll workers.

Joshua Butcher is set to become Logan County's newest circuit judge in January. In the May primary, when judicial races were nonpartisan for the first time in West Virginia, Butcher defeated current Logan Circuit Judge Douglas Witten by 59 votes.

Witten appealed to the Supreme Court an order by a three-judge panel, which found that votes cast at three polling places in Logan County shouldn't be discarded because of irregularities at the polls.

Witten was appointed by Gov. Earl Ray Tomblin last year, when then-Circuit Judge Roger Perry retired. Butcher is Perry's former law clerk.

"The Supreme Court based its unanimous opinion on principles that have been settled for a hundred years, said Ryan Donovan, one of the lawyers with the firm Bailey & Glasser, who represents Butcher. "Not only is this a great result for Judge-elect Butcher and the voters of Logan County, but we hope the Court's emphatic ruling will prevent similarly frivolous and wasteful challenges in the future.

Nitro lawyer Harvey Peyton, who represents Witten, said his client was disappointed by the ruling.

"But he appreciates the effort that the court obviously put into this. It's a 25-page opinion, Peyton said. "It showed a lot of consideration and effort by the court and that's the way the system is supposed to work. [Witten] will certainly abide by the court's ruling, as disappointed as he is.

"I wish Judge Butcher the best, Peyton added.

Tomblin, Witten and Butcher each got to choose someone to serve as judge on the three-member special court to decide the petition. The panel heard arguments in August in Logan and heard from 17 witnesses.

Charleston lawyer James S. Arnold was chosen by Tomblin to serve on the panel; Witten chose John Counts, who had served as treasurer of Witten's campaign; and Butcher chose Booth Goodwin, who stepped down as U.S. attorney at the end of 2015 to run for governor in the Democratic primary.

The panel found that while some election laws had been violated at the Bulwark, Sharples and Lane precincts, those violations weren't bad enough to void any votes.

In his appeal, Witten argued that the panel should have found that the election law irregularities amounted to misconduct and rendered the election results unfair.

Justice Robin Davis wrote that the court in its decision considered the constitutional right of the voters "to cast their vote and have their vote counted.

"We will not allow a technical error, without more, to override this constitutional right, the opinion states.

At the Bulwark Precinct, 10 voters didn't sign the poll book. Witten believed all of the votes cast at the precinct must be thrown out because of that. The Supreme Court rejected his argument.

"Judge Witten has offered no evidence that voter fraud or intentional misconduct was involved with the failure of the ten voters to sign the poll book, Davis wrote for the court

At the Sharples precinct, Witten argued that the poll workers weren't qualified to carry out their duties because of the absence of evidence that they took the required statutory oath.

The Logan County clerk testified that poll workers from Sharples actually did sign and orally take the oath, but that the oath sheets from that precinct had been misplaced.

"Even if the record had shown that the poll workers failed to properly take the required oath, [previous case law] would not permit rejecting the ballots cast in the Sharples Precinct merely because of this defect, Davis wrote.

Finally, at the Lane precinct, Witten accused Butcher's wife of unlawfully campaigning within the 300-foot "no electioneering zone on election day. West Virginia law prohibits campaigning or electioneering within 300 feet of a polling place when the polls are open. However, a poll worker at Lane testified that he erroneously cordoned off an area of about 225 feet and designated it the "no electioneering area. Witten agreed that Butcher's wife had stayed beyond that point, but argued that the votes at that precinct must still be thrown out.

"The blame in this situation rested exclusively with the poll workers who, through the erroneous placement of the signs, told Mrs. Butcher and all other voters that it was lawful to campaign immediately behind those signs, the opinion states.

Davis wrote in the unanimous opinion filed Wednesday that "the voters of this State cannot be disenfranchised or criminally penalized because of errors by polling officials in demarcating 'No Electioneering' zones at polling places."

Reach Kate White at kate.white@wvgazettemail.com, 304-348-1723 or follow @KateLWhite on Twitter.
Copyright, 2016, Charleston Newspapers
