

NC elections board holds emergency meeting Sunday on contested votes in governor's race
Newspaper November 20, 2016 | Charlotte Observer, The: Web Edition Articles (NC)
Author: Ann Doss Helms, The Charlotte Observer Section: local 254 Words
NC elections board holds emergency meeting Sunday on contested votes in governor's race
The North Carolina Board of Elections has called an emergency meeting at 4 p.m. Sunday to consider voter fraud complaints that could affect the close race for governor.

Republican Gov. Pat McCrory, who as of Friday’s canvass is trailing Democrat Roy Cooper by about 6,600 votes out of almost 4.7 million cast, has reported complaints in 52 of 100 counties, including Mecklenburg. McCrory’s campaign manager said there have been reports of votes cast by people who were dead, were convicted felons or had already voted.

McCrory has refused to concede until the complaints are resolved. In most races, Republicans won by significant margins. All local elections boards are run by boards with a Republican majority.

Each county board is responsible for investigating complaints and researching provisional ballots. On Friday, McCrory campaign manager Russell Peck asked the state board to take jurisdiction over all pending protests “so that it may consolidate those protests raising similar issues to prevent inconsistent results ... and facilitate a quicker resolution.” His letter said some counties don’t expect final results until as late as Nov. 30

The board will meet by conference call; click here or call 213-929-4212 (code 327-427-829) to listen in. Click here for any documents the board will discuss. Click here to review election results.

Ann Doss Helms: 704-358-5033, @anndosshelms McCrory: 'We're going to check everything'Governor Pat McCrory tells supporters that they will go through the process of checking everything, including provisional ballots, after his challenger Roy Cooper edged ahead by a slim margin late on election night.
Copyright (c) 2016 The Charlotte Observer

