Despite saying he won't prosecute for ballot selfies, warning remains on Denver DA's website 
November 3, 2016 | Denver Post, The: Web Edition Articles (CO) 
Author: Kirk Mitchell 
Section: Election 
511 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Although Denver District Attorney's office filed an affidavit Wednesday in U.S. District Court in Denver promising not to prosecute anyone who posted selfies showing their ballots, District Attorney Mitch Morrissey continued on Thursday morning to display a news release on his website warning voters posting ballot selfies is a crime. 
The Oct. 20 news release warned voters against posting completed ballots on social media and announced that doing so is a misdemeanor. The 125-year-old law is designed to protect voters from undue voter coercion and voter fraud. It was established in 1891 in an effort to prevent vote-buying such as an incident in 1902 when a Wray saloon owner offered pig feet and whiskey to voters who would support moving the Yuma County seat to his town instead of the town of Yuma. The final vote was 707324 in favor of Wray, according to an article in the Yuma Pioneer newspaper. 
The news release sparked a furor led by the Colorado Libertarian Party in which people said the 1891 law violates free speech rights. Voters filed two lawsuits claiming the Colorado law violates the U.S. Constitution; one against Morrissey and the other against the Colorado Attorney General's office and the Colorado Secretary of State's office. Plaintiffs are seeking an injunction against officials ordering them not to enforce the law, which punishes offenders by up to a year in jail. 
Judge Christine Arguello convened an emergency hearing Wednesday. Testimony and final arguments are expected to be completed on Thursday. Her decision on whether to grant an injunction will likely come on Friday, four days before the election. 
During the hearing on Wednesday, Arguello said she viewed avowals by Morrissey's office and state officials not to enforce the law as a concession that the law does impinge on freedom of speech rights of citizens. She also pointed out that despite Morrissey's pronouncement not to prosecute people who release ballot selfies, Morrissey displayed the release on his website. 
The website had become a central theme of arguments both by plaintiff and defense attorneys, as well as witnesses who said after they saw the news release they took down their selfies. 
During one exchange on Wednesday between Arguello and Morrissey's attorney, Andrew Ringel, he seemed to indicate a belief that the news release should be taken down. Arguello asked him how Morrissey's Oct. 20 warning that he issued to the media wouldn't chill free speech. 
"I have no problem advising my client to take the press release down," said Ringel, who added that he had no control over what Morrissey had on his website. 
"It will probably take another press release saying they will not enforce the statute," Arguello replied. 
Plaintiff attorney Michael Francisco told Arguello that merely agreeing not to prosecute voters who take selfies doesn't go far enough because Morrissey's website still says doing so is illegal. The mere threat of prosecution in Morrissey's news release chills free speech, he said, because convicted violators could face up to a year in jail and a $1,000 fine. 
Several people testified about the law and their concerns about being prosecuted for posting their ballots. 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Denver Post Corp. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Kirk Mitchell, 'Despite saying he won't prosecute for ballot selfies, warning remains on Denver DA's website', Denver Post, The: Web Edition Articles (online), 3 Nov 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16070DE993097190 
