Briefs 
October 8, 2016 | Denver Post, The (CO) 
Section: ASECTION 
407 Words 
Page: 9A 
OpenURL 
Link 
TRUMP AGAIN STOKES VOTING-FRAUD FEARS 
NEW YORK Donald Trump on Friday suggested that the Obama administration was letting illegal immigrants into the country to vote --part of a series of unsubstantiated complaints by the GOP nominee that the election is "rigged" and that his backers should monitor polling locations in "certain areas." 
Voting experts say they are increasingly troubled by Trump's tone, warning that his comments could undermine trust in an election system renowned as largely efficient and free of corruption. 
Richard Hasen, a law and political science professor at the University of California at Irvine who is the co-author of a leading casebook on election law, said Trump's comments about undocumented immigrants illegally voting is a continuation of his "irresponsible" pushing of the discredited idea that voter fraud is rampant and undetected, especially in poor and minority areas. Voter-impersonation fraud is rare, and Hasen said that in his years of research, he has yet to find a single election where such cases compromised results. 
Trump pulls some ads. Donald Trump's presidential campaign is pulling previously planned advertising orders in select markets in some key battleground states next week and adding others elsewhere, according to ad tracking sources. 
The spots are being pulled in Colorado, Maine, Ohio, Florida, Iowa, North Carolina and Pennsylvania, said Steve Passwaiter, a vice president and general manager at Kantar Media/CMAG. "It seems to be mostly smaller markets," he said. 
That includes canceling roughly $31,000 worth of ads in Grand Junction. Patrick Davis, a senior Trump official in Colorado, said in a statement that the campaign "is shifting resources from over-performing markets to new battlegrounds." 
Johnson chides media. Libertarian Party presidential nominee Gary Johnson tried to put a string of foreign policy gaffes behind him on Friday with a speech at the University of Chicago that began with some brickbats for how the media had covered him. 
"Because you can dot I's and cross the T's on names of foreign leaders and geographic locations, then that qualifies you to put the military in a situation where the military is dying," Johnson said. "If that's the qualification to be president, dotting the I's and crossing the T's on the names of foreign leaders and geographic locations, and because that's the quality that you have to possess, we'll just count on the military policies of this country continuing." 
Johnson is refocusing on the libertarian message that he believes can win over voters disgusted by the Hillary Clinton-Donald Trump race. Denver Post wire services 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Denver Post Corp. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Briefs', Denver Post, The (online), 8 Oct 2016 9A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15FF26934866C990 
