Vote fraud in Colorado is extremely rare, officials say -President Trump says he lost the popular vote because of voter fraud 
January 24, 2017 | Denver Post, The: Web Edition Articles (CO) 
Author: The Denver Post 
Section: Election 
304 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Colorado officials say cases of voter fraud are rare, and that the state has redundant safeguards in place. 
Multiple layers of checks and rechecks and multiple groups of poll watchers, election monitors and vote count-verifiers work to ensure an accurate election. 
The White House on Tuesday stuck firmly to President Donald Trump's claim that millions of people voted illegally in the November election, but provided no evidence to back up his assertion. 
In Colorado, there are 64 separate systems  one in each county  which are overseen by independent officials and use one of five different brands of voting machines and have their results reconciled by local, bipartisan canvass boards. 
"Our elections systems are not connected to the Internet," Colorado Secretary of State Wayne Williams recently told county clerks gathered for a conference in Colorado Springs, according to his spokeswoman. "You cannot hack them remotely. This is true in all 64 counties in this state. They are kept in locked rooms. They are kept with security locks. They have security seals on them. 
"Could you (hack into a county election system) if you were Tom Cruise in 'Mission Impossible' break in at night  under the surveillance cameras with a mask of somebody else, using a cut off finger for a fingerprint? I mean, yeah, maybe," Williams said. 
Williams did not respond to requests for comment on Tuesday. 
Between January 2012 and Nov. 5, 2016, there were 32 charges of various voting offenses, according to statistics compiled by the Colorado District Attorneys Council. Those charges resulted in four convictions. 
Those figures do not include cases investigated by the state Attorney General's office, which reported in early November that it had filed charges in two voter fraud cases since 2012, both of which were pending. Both involved allegations about the ballot initiative process and the collection of signatures 
Copyright (c) 2017 The Denver Post Corp. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
The Denver Post, 'Vote fraud in Colorado is extremely rare, officials say -President Trump says he lost the popular vote because of voter fraud', Denver Post, The: Web Edition Articles (online), 24 Jan 2017 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/162220B766578D40 
