The turnout state -Colorado crushes U.S. average, but mailballots aren't a huge factor 
November 21, 2016 | Denver Post, The (CO) 
Author: Brian Eason Brian Eason, The Denver Post 
Section: ASECTION 
1162 Words 
Page: 1A 
OpenURL 
Link 
Even as voter turnout declined across the U.S. for the second presidential contest in a row, Coloradans cast ballots in huge numbers, bucking the national trend and reinforcing the state's position as a leader in voter participation. 
But for all the talk of a dramatic shift in Colorado's elections under the state's expanded mail-in balloting system, the final numbers in 2016 are going to look a lot like that of presidential elections past. 
More people voted by mail in Colorado than ever in 2016 --upward of 2.6 million of the 2.8 million ballots cast, according to the latest unofficial tallies from the Secretary of State's Office. But overall turnout is expected to be slightly above that of 2012, and slightly below 2008. 
"I think, frankly, there's no evidence to suggest that the change made any difference in turnout," said Judd Choate, the state director of elections. 
Four years ago, 70.6 percent of the state's voting-eligible population cast a ballot, according to the United States Election Project. That was tied with Iowa for third-highest in the U.S. 
As of Friday's tallies, turnout this year would be 71.3 percent using the same measure --once again, third in the U.S. That number could go up or down as counties continue their ballot verification process. 
"We didn't go from one kind of an election to a mail-ballot election," Choate said. "We went from a mail-ballot election to a mail-ballot election where a slightly higher percentage of the population got their ballots by mail." 
There wasn't a noticeable down-ballot effect, either. Among statewide propositions and amendments, eligible voter turnout ranged from 62.8 percent to 68.4 percent this year. In 2012, turnout ranged from 
61.6 percent to 68 percent. 
Still, more voters did show up: 241,981 more ballots were cast than in 2012. And among registered voters, turnout increased to 75.29 percent from 2012, when 71.2 percent voted. In 2008, 75.5 percent of registered voters turned out, compared to 71.6 percent of the eligible voters. 
Colorado remains a national leader in voter engagement. Turnout here dwarfed the national average of 
58.2 percent. And an Elections Performance Index maintained by the Pew Charitable Trusts consistently gives the state high marks for how its elections are run. 
The experience in other mail-in ballot states seems to mirror that of Colorado. 
According to researchers, mail-in ballot laws "don't end up having a huge impact on voter turnout," said Seth Masket, a political scientist at the University of Denver. "They make voting a little easier, largely for people who were going to vote anyway." 
While there's not a noticeable impact in presidential years, Choate said, mail ballots can boost turnout in low-interest elections. 
"The obvious reason for that is if you don't know there's an election coming, but you get a ballot in the mail, you're more likely to vote than you would have been had you not gotten a ballot in the mail," Choate said. 
In 2014, the turnout increased compared with the prior midterm election, from 51.7 percent in 2010 to 
54.7 percent, but it's not clear if that boost was the result of mail ballots. 
A Pew Charitable Trusts study released in March proved inconclusive, citing the competitive U.S. Senate race as a possible factor in driving higher turnout and noting that the state's turnout in midterm elections has increased every year since 1994. 
Even if turnout was largely unchanged in 2016, there were significant differences --both for election workers and political campaigns. 
"Election Day really isn't Election Day any more," said Amber McReynolds, the director of elections in Denver. 
Some 93 percent of voters this year voted by mail statewide, leaving just 7 percent who voted in person on Nov. 8, according to the Secretary of State's Office. In 2012, 28 percent voted in person, according to Lynn Bartels, spokeswoman for the Secretary of State. 
For county election offices, that means more work --and more staffing --on the back end. 
McReynolds said processing mail ballots is a time-consuming and labor-intensive process that requires each signature to be verified. If the software considers it a match to prior signatures on file, that's it --the ballot is sent on to be counted. If not, it goes to step two: human judges. And if they won't certify the signature, election officials must notify the voter by mail to give them an opportunity for the ballot to be "cured" by verifying their identity by Nov. 16. 
Ballot curing was rare, McReynolds said. Out of close to 340,000 ballots cast, Denver notified fewer than 1 percent of them --just 3,240 voters --that a cure was needed. In Arapahoe County, where 311,000 people voted, around 100 people cured their ballots, while 2,099 ballots were rejected. 
Counties have until Friday to report their final results to the Secretary of State's Office. The deadline to certify the statewide results is Dec. 8. 
For campaigns, the increase in mail-in balloting means throwing out the traditional playbook. 
"It used to be that was a 72-hour (get out the vote) operation down the stretch," said Ian Lindemann, the Colorado state director for the Republican National Committee, in a Thursday conference call with reporters. "Now it has effectively become a 22-day Election Day." 
In 2013, when the all vote-by-mail system was being debated, Republicans were overwhelmingly opposed to the changes, raising concerns about voter fraud and suggesting that the moves were designed to help Democrats turn out. 
No Republican lawmakers voted for the bill, which also shortened the length of time you must live in Colorado to become a voter and allowed for same-day registration on Election Day. 
"Many people thought it could be a liability," Lindemann said. But so far, he added, that hasn't been the case. 
In 2014, the first all-mail election, Republicans won big, ousting a sitting Democratic U.S. senator, taking control of the state Senate and winning three constitutional statewide seats. This year, Republicans lost the major statewide races, but held on to control of the state Senate. 
There were some surprise hiccups: In Denver, a ballot initiative on social marijuana use wasn't decided until nearly a week after the election. The reason: a flood of ballots dropped off on Election Day. 
That wasn't unique to Denver. Floyd Ciruli, a pollster and political analyst with Ciruli Associates, said the influx of ballots began the weekend before Election Day, and continued through Tuesday, overwhelming many counties. 
"That was sort of unique," Ciruli said. "Was that a sign that they wanted to wait because of the election environment? They wanted to see the latest things, or they were undecided?" 
Or, he suggested, "Was it that a lot of people actually like to vote on Election Day in a presidential year?" 
Anecdotally, Jennifer Morrell, the deputy of elections in Arapahoe County, saw a lot of the latter. 
"People said, 'I wanted to experience voting in person --waiting in line, that's all part of the Election Day experience.'" 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Denver Post Corp. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Brian Eason; Brian Eason, The Denver Post, 'The turnout state -Colorado crushes U.S. average, but mail ballots aren't a huge factor', Denver Post, The (online), 21 Nov 2016 1A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160DAA839A977308 
