Hundreds gather at National Western Complex hours before Donald Trump's appearance -Donald Trump made Denver one of his stops on a whirlwind tour Saturday 
November 5, 2016 | Denver Post, The: Web Edition Articles (CO) Author: Mark K. Matthews 
Section: Politics 
1035 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Hundreds of Donald Trump supporters gathered at the National Western Complex on Saturday night for the opportunity to see the Republican presidential nominee in Colorado for probably the last time before Election Day. 
The Denver event was scheduled to begin at 9:30 p.m., but the line to get in stretched back several football fields three hours before Trump's appearance. Other than the occasional cheer for Trump, though, the crowd outside was generally subdued on a warm November night. 
It was the first time Effie Boyhan, a 66-year-old from Longmont, said she's been to a Trump event. 
"The last time I was this excited was when I saw Willie Nelson at Red Rocks," said Boyhan, who admitted she initially thought Trump's candidacy was a joke. 
"I thought 'Oh my God' I can't believe that Trump is running for president. I thought it was ridiculous," Boyhan said. "Then I started to listen to him more and more and more." 
What rang true to her, she said, was Trump's approach to immigration. 
"I don't like when immigrants have to go through the legal system to get in here and then other people just walk in and we don't have borders. And without borders, I don't believe we do have a country," Boyhan said. 
In line behind Boyhan stood Shawn Mercer, 50, of Arvada, who wore a t-shirt that read "Vote No To Monica's Ex-Boyfriend's Wife in 2016." 
Mercer, an unaffiliated voter, said one of Trump's big appeals was that he was outside the establishment 
 he was neither a Clinton nor a Bush but someone who "doesn't come from a long line of political elite." 
"I think he's the monkey wrench that hopefully could go in there and do something different and really shake it up," Mercer said. "He doesn't have a laundry list of people that basically paid him a lot of cash and that he has to perform favors for." 
Crowd filtering into National Western Complex for tonight's Trump rally. One 'Lock Her Up' chant but many just getting food. #copolitics 
 Mark K Matthews (@mkmatthews) November 6, 2016 
As people filtered into the Denver event, Trump supporters at one point chanted "Lock her up!", referring to Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. The chat was repeated a few times in the hours before Trump was scheduled to take the podium. 
Trump's rally at the National Western Complex is slated to be the last stop of a whirlwind tour Saturday that included stops in Florida, Nevada and North Carolina. 
Just before heading to Denver, Trump appeared in Reno, Nev., where he was briefly rushed off stage by Secret Service agents as a commotion unfolded in the crowd before him. The Secret Service later issued a statement that a person in the crowd had shouted "gun." Agents and Reno police took a man into custody but later announced no weapon was found. 
Trump returned to his podium and continued his speech, proclaiming "nobody said it was going to be easy for us, but we will never be stopped." 
Screenshot of Trump being rushed off stage in Reno, Nev. Speaker says Trump will keep talking. pic.twitter.com/13blqtKoaa 
 
Jesse Aaron Paul (@JesseAPaul) November 6, 2016 
NOW: Trump rushed off the stage by Secret Service in Reno, Nevada. Lots of action in crowd. No word on what happened. I'm watching stream. 
 
Jesse Aaron Paul (@JesseAPaul) November 6, 2016 
Trump, before the incident during his Reno event, said Clinton "shouldn't be allowed to run," called the nation's election system "rigged" and encouraged people in the state to get out and vote as he promised a "big, big victory." 
Regarding those claims of a rigged election in Colorado and across the nation, Curt Zeis, a 60-year-old Republican from Littleton, said: "I think there could be some truth to it  maybe not to the extent he says." 
In Colorado, voter fraud is extremely rare. Since January 2012, there have been 32 charges of various voting offenses, according to statistics compiled by the Colorado District Attorneys Council. 
Those 32 charges resulted in four convictions  though those figures do not include cases investigated by the state Attorney General, who did not respond last week to requests for comparable information. 
About 2.6 million Coloradans voted in the 2012 election and nearly 2.1 million residents voted in the 2014 
election, according to state officials. 
At one point in Nevada, Trump called former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani onto the stage, which riled up his crowd. He also promised to cut taxes for the middle class and addressed Latinos and blacks, saying the nation's inner cities are "so unfair" because people can't safely walk to the store and get a loaf of bread in many cases. 
"We are going to win back the White House," Trump proclaimed. 
As defiant as ever, he also promised to make subsequent appearances in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Minnesota. 
Minnesota hasn't cast its electoral votes for a Republican since 1972. A Republican nominee hasn't won Michigan or Pennsylvania since 1988. 
"We're going into what they used to call Democrat strongholds, where we're now either tied or leading," Trump said in Florida. 
Colorado backed Barack Obama in the 2008 and 2012 elections, and most polls this year have shown Clinton running ahead of Trump. 
In late summer, Clinton boasted a double-digit lead in several Colorado surveys, from Quinnipiac University to Fox News. That lead has diminished, however, as the two campaigns have hurtled toward the Nov. 8 finish line. 
An average of recent polls compiled by RealClearPolitics put Clinton ahead of Trump by 3 percentage points in Colorado. 
Trump has a narrower path to victory than Clinton, and the GOP nominee needs swing-states such as Colorado to turn his way. He's been a frequent visitor to Colorado in recent weeks; in October he held rallies in Golden, Colorado Springs and Pueblo. 
The Clinton campaign too has paid more attention to Colorado down the stretch. After not advertising in the state since July, Clinton bought commercials for the election's final week in Denver, Colorado Springs and Grand Junction. On Friday, former President Bill Clinton appeared at a campaign event in Denver. 
As of Saturday morning, Democrats and Republicans in Colorado had returned their ballots at a near-even clip  597,567 for Democrats and the 597,194 for Republicans, according to Magellan Strategies, a Colorado-based consulting firm. 
About 475,000 independents also have voted already. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Denver Post Corp. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Mark K. Matthews, 'Hundreds gather at National Western Complex hours before Donald Trump's appearance -Donald Trump made Denver one of his stops on a whirlwind tour Saturday', Denver Post, The: Web Edition Articles (online), 5 Nov 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1607BA28471ADCE8 
