Republican VP candidate Pence pumps up Loveland 
November 3, 2016 | Denver Post, The (CO) 
Author:MaxSiegelbaumMaxSiegelbaum,The DenverPost 
Section:ASECTION 
614Words 
Page: 4A 
OpenURL 
Link 
LOVELAND Republican vice presidential candidate Mike Pence told about 800 cheering supporters in Loveland on Wednesday that he and Donald Trump are "just six days away from a great victory." 
As the election draws nearer, Trump's campaign has enjoyed a slight surge in the polls in some states after the FBI announced it found new e-mails pertinent to its investigation of Democrat Hillary Clinton. 
Pence spent much of his Loveland speech attacking Clinton and accusing her of colluding with the media. 
"The media is out there doing half of Hillary Clinton's work for her every day," he said. 
He echoed sentiments shared by people attending the rally, who were less worried about fraud at the polls than a general bias in favor of Clinton from U.S. politicians, lobbyists and members of national media. 
Dora Valdez, a self-proclaimed "Latina for Trump" wearing a T-shirt that read "Dora the Deplorable," doesn't believe the election will be decided by voter fraud. But it is "rigged in terms of mainstream media," Valdez said. "You could see it leaning toward Hillary. It turned me off, and I turned it off." 
"Accusations from women are part of the Democrat force," said Clint Harm, a Trump supporter who went to the rally from Aurora. "His politics and economic program far outweigh social problems he's been accused of." 
Pence repeated many of the proposed policies and actions the Trump campaign has promised to enact if he's elected president, including repealing Obamacare and renegotiating NAFTA. He also promised to elect Supreme Court justices who would interpret the Constitution similarly to Antonin Scalia. 
"Donald Trump will restore law and order in every city and every community in this nation," he said, repeating a phrase from a September rally in Colorado Springs. 
Recently, the Trump campaign has been raising fears of election fraud and ballot rigging. This year marks Colorado's first mail-in presidential election. At campaign stops in Golden and Greeley last week, Trump criticized the mail ballot system, alleging it poses a potential for voter fraud. He has called on his supporters to watch polling stations to monitor for cases of voter fraud. 
"We have a lot of people watching you people that collect the ballots," he said at the time. 
"I believe it's a fact," Calvin Pemberton, 31, said in reference to Trump's allegations of voter fraud. He drove five hours from Beaver City, Neb., to attend the rally. "There are too many policies that crunch down on small businesses," said Pemberton, who described himself as a small-business owner. 
Ginny Peterson of Fort Collins also felt Trump's theories were possible: "I think voter fraud is highly probable. The government is highly corrupt." 
"I've never been this involved in an election," said Diane Dressor, who said she was worried about Syrian refugees coming to the U.S. and the Democratic Party interfering with the election. Despite the feeling that media had a bias, Dressor and others were faithful in the Colorado ballot system. 
"I like the paper ballots. They're not like the machines," said Stan Strelecki of Loveland. 
Pence held rallies in Colorado Springs and Durango. He spoke on the campaign's promise to secure America's cities and pleaded with supporters to rally support for the Republican Party. 
Miki Baxter, 45, is an undecided voter and went to the rally to help solidify her decision. 
"I grew up in a military family, and I don't think Hillary has the military's back," she said, later adding "both options seem terrifying." 
Others were more confident in their candidate. Peterson was predicting a victory for Trump. 
"I don't think he's going to lose. God is on our side," she said. 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Denver Post Corp. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Max Siegelbaum; Max Siegelbaum, The Denver Post, 'Republican VP candidate Pence pumps up Loveland', Denver Post, The (online), 3 Nov 2016 4A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1607B6A64FB27690 
