Trump adds to his mail-ballot skepticism -In Greeley, GOP candidate calls Clinton e-mail development a "bombshell" 
October 31, 2016 | Denver Post, The (CO) 
Author: John Frank John Frank , The Denver Post 
Section: ASECTION 
495 Words 
Page: 2A 
OpenURL 
Link 
GREELEY Donald Trump continued to question Colorado's first mail-ballot presidential election in his second visit in two days to the crucial swing state. 
"Do you think those ballots are properly counted?" he asked the crowd Sunday at the University of Northern Colorado. 
"I know they are saying, 'Oh, of course, it's all legitimate,' " he added. "Perhaps I'm a more skeptical person." 
The Republican's opening remark about voter fraud in Colorado echoed his comments Saturday at a Jefferson County rally. But Colorado election officials are pushing back against the suggestion of a rigged system. 
Republican Secretary of State Wayne Williams --a critic of the 2013 measure that implemented the current system --suggests "vote fraud is rare." 
Reacting to Trump, Denver elections chief Amber McReynolds said the current mail-ballot process includes more checks than prior elections. 
"From my perspective, it's just a lack of understanding of all the safeguards and all the processes that we have in Colorado," she said. 
Trump's visit came as Republicans look to close a deficit in early voting. Democrats held a 27,000-ballot advantage through Friday, the latest numbers available. 
A CBS/YouGov poll showed the race is closer than expected, as Trump is essentially tied in Colorado with Hillary Clinton --a shift from the Democrat's comfortable lead in recent weeks. 
Clinton received 42 percent and Trump registered 39 percent in the head-to-head poll of likely Colorado voters last week. 
At numerous points in his 45-minute speech, Trump urged supporters in the campus arena --numbering more than 3,000, according to officials --to "get those ballots in." 
The early numbers showing Democrats with the advantage may not foretell the final result Nov. 8, as 
evidenced by fans. Thomas Crawford, a registered Democrat from Denver, traveled to Greeley for the rally. He and wife Martha, a lifelong Democratic voter, cast ballots for Trump. 
"I think the Clintons have sold this country down the river," said Crawford, a 49-year-old salesman. 
"Trump's not a politician," added Martha Crawford, 63. "He's going to drain the swamp." 
The FBI investigation involving former U.S. Rep. Anthony Weiner and e-mails discovered on his laptop that possibly link to Clinton only invigorated Trump's supporters in the crowd. As Trump made his speech, the FBI reported that it obtained a search warrant for e-mails tied to Clinton. 
Trump called the revelation about the new invesitgation a "bombshell." 
"Hillary Clinton is not the victim, by the way. You, the American people, are the victims of the corrupt system," Trump said. 
In Colorado's energy hub, Trump made clear he supports hydraulic fracturing and criticized his Democratic opponent for requiring so many restraints that it makes it near impossible. 
Trump said fracking has an "unbelievable impact" on the nation's energy production --a sentiment he heard in a recent meeting with oil and gas executives in Denver. "We have under our feet," he said, "so much wealth." 
To do it properly, Trump outlined only three requirements. "I want crystal-clear, crystal-clean water. I want such clean air. And I want safety," he said. "Other than that, that's what I want." 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Denver Post Corp. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
JohnFrank;JohnFrank ,The DenverPost, 'Trumpadds to his mail-ballotskepticism -InGreeley, GOP candidate calls Clinton e-mail development a "bombshell"', Denver Post, The (online), 31 Oct 2016 2A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1606BA3F2D3CB040 
