Trump questions Colorado's mail ballot during rally 
October 30, 2016 | Denver Post, The (CO) 
Author: John Frank John Frank , The Denver Post 
Section: ASECTION 
736 Words 
Page: 1A 
OpenURL 
Link 
GOLDEN Donald Trump cast doubt on the integrity of Colorado's mail-ballot election Saturday at a rally in a key swing county where he implored his supporters to vote. 
"I have real problems with ballots being sent," the Republican presidential nominee told a crowd that numbered in the thousands. "Like people say, 'Oh, here's a ballot. Here's another ballot, throw it away. Oh, here's one I like. We'll keep that one.' I have real problems." 
Trump even added a warning to county election officials: "We have a lot of people watching you people that collect the ballots." 
This is the first mail-in presidential election for Colorado. Statewide mail-in elections were introduced in 2014. 
The emphasis on voter fraud --part of what Trump suggests is a "rigged system" --enlivened his supporters but diverted focus from the news the FBI is reviewing fresh e-mails connected with Hillary Clinton. 
Republicans are looking to capitalize on the latest cloud surrounding the Democratic nominee as the party looks to close an early vote gap that shows Democrats with a 27,000-ballot advantage in Colorado through the end of the day Thursday, the latest numbers available. 
Trump suggested Clinton's handling of her e-mail as secretary of state "put our national security at risk," and he speculated that the new investigation may reveal some of the 30,000 missing records. 
"This is the biggest political scandal since Watergate, and it's everybody's deepest hope that justice at last can be properly delivered," Trump said to raucous applause. "Hillary has nobody to blame but herself for her mounting legal troubles." 
The initial investigation into Clinton's private e-mail server drew significant attention in Colorado, as the company hired to manage the data, Platte River Networks, is based in Denver. 
"On Nov. 8, we are going to change things," the New York businessman told the crowd. "A vote for Hillary is a vote to surrender our government to public corruption, graft and cronyism that threatens the very foundations of our constitutional system." 
Trump's campaign event at the Jefferson County fairgrounds in Golden was the first of back-to-back 
visits to Colorado --and fourth to the state this month. Trump will attend events in Phoenix and Las Vegas before returning Sunday for a 4 p.m. rally in Greeley. 
Clinton visited Pueblo earlier this month in her second visit since the Democratic National Convention. Her daughter, Chelsea Clinton, is attending events next week in Aurora and Boulder. 
Clinton's campaign is feeling confident in Colorado, as polls show her leading by an average 7 percentage points. To win the White House, a number of projections show Trump must win Colorado. 
Democratic U.S. Rep. Ed Perlmutter, a top Clinton supporter, said the latest questions about the candidate's e-mails will not shift the momentum. 
"I don't think it's going to have much effect," he said in an interview between canvassing events. "Republicans are trying to make a lot of noise with it because they are in kind of a desperate place." 
Perlmutter emphasized that e-mails at the center of the FBI investigation do not involve any sent to or from Clinton, but rather involve a laptop shared by former U.S. Rep. Anthony Weiner of New York and his estranged wife, Huma Abedin, a top campaign adviser. 
On the campaign trail Saturday, Perlmutter emphasized the enthusiasm among Democrats and asserted that Trump's message of "doom and gloom pessimism really doesn't play well in Colorado." 
In Jefferson County, the Democratic early vote advantage is 4,700 ballots, according to the latest state figures, and Trump told the crowd at his rally to "get the ballots in" or vote in person at the polling center next door. 
Most of the crowd raised their hands when Trump asked if they had voted before the rally. But Dustin McClure, a 34-year-old recent transplant from Tennessee, took Trump's advice and voted in person. 
"I don't really trust the whole mailing-in-your-ballot thing," he said. 
Cristal Lubbers, 37, of Golden felt the same and voted after the rally. She expects more Colorado voters to support Trump after the latest questions about Clinton's e-mails. 
"It's going to help the people who are kind of wavering on that fence to finally decide what a crook she is," she said, adding, "This election year is a little bit violent, and it's one of the most exciting I've seen in my lifetime." 
John Frank: 303-954-2409, jfrank@denverpost.com or @ByJohnFrank 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Denver Post Corp. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
John Frank; John Frank , The Denver Post, 'Trump questions Colorado's mail ballot during rally', Denver Post, The (online), 30 Oct 2016 1A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16066305EED9C258 
