State aims to make selfies great again -Ban on ballot pictures may violate free speech 
January 25, 2017 | Denver Post, The (CO) 
Author: John Frank John Frank, The Denver Post 
Section: ASECTION 
656 Words 
Page: 7A 
OpenURL 
Link 
Colorado lawmakers want to make it legal to post ballot selfies after a federal judge suggested the state's 125-year-old law banning the practice violates free speech rights. 
"The idea of voting is an awesome opportunity, and we should give people a chance to celebrate that any way they darn well please," said Sen. Owen Hill, a Colorado Springs Republican and bill sponsor. 
The premise is drawing bipartisan support, but the measure includes a provision that makes it illegal to trade a vote or even offer to swap --a potential poison pill that may jeopardize the bill when it debuts in a House committee Wednesday. 
Both issues --posting pictures of ballots to social media and the arranging to swap votes on websites -emerged as controversies in the chaotic 2016 presidential race and showcased how new technology is remaking the age-old election process. 
And the effort to repeal the law making it a misdemeanor crime to share a completed ballot added urgency after a federal judge blocked its enforcement in response to a lawsuit Hill filed just days before the 2016 election. 
U.S. District Court Judge Christine M. Arguello in Denver wrote that "the loss of First Amendment freedoms, for even minimal periods of time, unquestionably constitutes irreparable injury." 
The judge's order prohibiting enforcement of the law is only temporary, and the constitutional case on First Amendment grounds may still proceed, unless the language is repealed. An Associated Press review during the 2016 election found that 21 states allow ballot selfies, while it is explicitly illegal in at least 16 others. 
The Colorado law originated in 1891. A Wray saloon owner convinced voters to move the Yuma County seat to his town by offering pig feet and whiskey to supporters. No convictions for disclosing a ballot occurred in the past five years, according to a legislative analysis. 
Rep. Paul Rosenthal, a primary bill sponsor, said the measure "basically just brings this part of our election code up into current times." 
Secretary of State Wayne Williams, a Republican, fought in federal court to keep the law in place, despite failed attempts in the past two years to repeal it. 
This year, Suzanne Staiert, the deputy secretary of state, said the office would support the bill as long as it includes protections for voters and helps prevent voter fraud. 
"When it comes to someone just merely posting their ballot image to show they supported one candidate or another, that's not a big concern with us," she said. "Our concern is the downstream policy impacts of allowing this practice and what it would lead to --intimidation, fraud, selling, those types of things." 
But the negotiations on House Bill 1014 are becoming more complicated on the issue of whether it is illegal to trade a vote, a practice that often involves the exchange of ballot photos. 
The secretary of state's office contends the practice is illegal because a vote carries value, even if the law is not explicit on the point. 
The question began to surface in the 2016 election amid the TrumpTraders movement, in which voters in states without a competitive presidential election offered to trade votes with a swing-state voter as part of an effort to stop Donald Trump from winning the White House. 
A 2007 federal court ruling and ambiguity in Colorado's law opened the door to the practice and led Williams to request a provision in the bill clarifying that it is illegal. The legislation would make it a misdemeanor crime to trade a vote --but the sponsor plans to strike that language in the first hearing. 
Rosenthal, D-Denver, said he agrees with the 9th U.S. Circuit of Appeals ruling that vote-swapping is protected by the First Amendment, so he plans to remove that provision. "Why start out proposing a bill on free speech by putting into it something that isn't?" he said. 
Without the provision, Staiert said, the secretary of state's office would not support the bill --a move that makes it harder to win approval in the Republican-led state Senate. 
John Frank: 303-954-2409, jfrank@denverpost.com or @ByJohnFrank 
Copyright (c) 2017 The Denver Post Corp. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
John Frank; John Frank, The Denver Post, 'State aims to make selfies great again -Ban on ballot pictures may violate free speech', Denver Post, The (online), 25 Jan 2017 7A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/162315EBFA0E9450 
