Donald Trump targets Hillary Clinton and immigration in Denver speech 
November 5, 2016 | Denver Post, The: Web Edition Articles (CO) Author: Mark K. Matthews 
Section: Politics 
910 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Donald Trump hammered away at both U.S. immigration policy and rival Hillary Clinton during a Saturday night campaign stop in Denver, referencing federal inquiries into Clinton's use of a private email server, as well as the 2005 shooting of two Denver police officers by an immigrant living in the country illegally. 
"If she were to win, it would be an unprecedented constitutional crisis," said Trump, who warned a Clinton White House could face a felony indictment because of how she handled e-mails as U.S. Secretary of State. "Her current scandals and controversies will continue throughout her presidency." 
The Republican presidential nominee, who has made immigration a centerpiece of his campaign, again promised to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and  as motivation  cited a 2005 "ambush" in which an immigrant named Raul Gomez-Garcia killed Denver Det. Donald Young and wounded his partner, Jack Bishop. 
"Thousands of Americans would be alive today if not for the policies of Obama and Clinton," Trump said. 
Gomez-Garcia later was sentenced to a maximum of 80 years in prison. 
During his nearly 50-minute speech, Trump said his time on the campaign trail has put him in touch with "so many people who have lost their faith in the future and the future of the country." 
But "we are going to turn it around," he said, starting with a repeal of the Affordable Care Act. "Our government has failed our citizens," Trump said. 
Trump's rally in Denver was the last stop of a whirlwind tour Saturday that included appearances in Florida, Nevada and North Carolina. 
Just before heading to Denver, Trump appeared in Reno, Nev., where he was briefly rushed off stage by Secret Service agents as a commotion unfolded in the crowd before him. The Secret Service later issued a statement that a person in the crowd had shouted "gun." Agents and Reno police took a man into custody but later announced no weapon was found. 
Trump returned to his podium and continued his speech, proclaiming "nobody said it was going to be easy for us, but we will never be stopped." He did not mention the incident during his Denver stop. 
Trump, in Nevada, said Clinton "shouldn't be allowed to run," called the nation's election system "rigged" 
and encouraged people in the state to get out and vote as he promised a "big, big victory." 
Regarding those claims of a rigged election in Colorado and across the nation, Curt Zeis, a 60-year-old Republican from Littleton, said: "I think there could be some truth to it  maybe not to the extent he says." 
In Colorado, voter fraud is extremely rare. Since January 2012, there have been 32 charges of various voting offenses, according to statistics compiled by the Colorado District Attorneys Council. 
Those 32 charges resulted in four convictions  though those figures do not include cases investigated by the state Attorney General, who did not respond last week to requests for comparable information. 
About 2.6 million Coloradans voted in the 2012 election, and nearly 2.1 million residents voted in the 2014 election, according to state officials. 
Three hours before Trump spoke in Denver, the line to see him stretched several football fields and included hundreds of supporters. By the time he took the stage, the crowd had swelled beyond that and filled the National Western Complex. 
"The last time I was this excited was when I saw Willie Nelson at Red Rocks," said Effie Boyhan, a 66year-old from Longmont. 
Throughout the evening, his supporters repeated a number of chants that have become ubiquitous at Trump rallies, from "lock her up" to "drain the swamp." 
The biggest cheers  other than for Trump  were for Mike Shanahan, former coach of the Denver Broncos. Shanahan has been one of Trump's best-known surrogates in Colorado, and this summer he co-hosted a fundraiser with Pete Coors, the longtime beer executive, for Trump the same week as the Western Conservative Summit. 
Shanahan, wearing a suit and red tie, recalled a time when the two played golf and Trump seemed to know everyone at the course, from the caddies on up. He also touted his energy, work ethic and passion. 
"He's a proven business leader, across the world," said Shanahan, who added that Trump has spent his life making deals. "He doesn't owe anybody anything." 
To win Colorado, however, Trump will have to buck recent electoral history. 
Colorado backed Barack Obama in the 2008 and 2012 elections, and most polls this year have shown Clinton running ahead of Trump. 
In late summer, Clinton boasted a double-digit lead in several Colorado surveys, from Quinnipiac University to Fox News. That lead has diminished, however, as the two campaigns have hurtled toward the Nov. 8 finish line. 
An average of recent polls compiled by RealClearPolitics put Clinton ahead of Trump by 3 percentage points in Colorado. 
Trump has a narrower path to victory than Clinton, and the GOP nominee needs swing-states such as Colorado to turn his way. He's been a frequent visitor to Colorado in recent weeks; in October he held rallies in Golden, Colorado Springs and Pueblo. 
The Clinton campaign, too, has paid more attention to Colorado down the stretch. After not advertising in the state since July, Clinton bought commercials for the election's final week in Denver, Colorado Springs and Grand Junction. On Friday, former President Bill Clinton appeared at a campaign event in Denver. 
As of Saturday morning, Democrats and Republicans in Colorado had returned their ballots at a near-even clip  597,567 for Democrats and the 597,194 for Republicans, according to Magellan Strategies, a Colorado-based consulting firm. 
About 475,000 independents also have voted already. 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Denver Post Corp. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Mark K. Matthews, 'Donald Trump targets Hillary Clinton and immigration in Denver speech', Denver Post, The: Web Edition Articles (online), 5 Nov 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1607BA2840483078 
