Federal judge considers blocking Colo. law that bans ballot selfies 
November 3, 2016 | Denver Post, The (CO) 
Author: Kirk Mitchell Kirk Mitchell, The Denver Post 
Section: ASECTION 
689 Words 
Page: 1A 
OpenURL 
Link 
A 125-year-old Colorado law aimed at discouraging vote swapping for whiskey and pig feet is now at the center of a high-tech freedom-of-expression case involving cellphone ballot selfies. 
An attorney for Denver District Attorney Mitch Morrissey on Wednesday told U.S. District Judge Christine Arguello that Morrissey will not enforce the law despite the fact his office posted a news release on its official website warning people that it is illegal to post ballot selfies in Colorado. 
"There is no threat of a possible prosecution. ... There is no intent by the DA's office to chill free speech," Andrew Ringel, Morrissey's attorney, said in a hearing in U.S. District Court in Denver. 
But Arguello asked how Morrissey's Oct. 20 warning that he issued to the media wouldn't chill free speech. 
"I have no problem advising my client to take the press release down," said Ringel, who added that he had no control over what Morrissey had on his website. 
"It will probably take another press release saying they will not enforce the statute," Arguello replied. 
The exchange happened after Arguello convened an expedited hearing to issue a restraining order prohibiting enforcement of the voter law passed in 1891. In addition to the lawsuit against Morrissey, a second similar lawsuit was filed against Colorado Secretary of State Wayne Williams. Arguello expedited the hearing because the election is less than a week away. 
But before taking testimony Wednesday, the judge pointed out that Williams, Morrissey and other district attorneys issued affidavits promising not to arrest anyone who violates the law. For example, District Attorney Dan May of Colorado Springs said he would only enforce other election laws in cases of voter fraud or voters selling or buying votes. 
By doing so, Arguello argued that Williams and Morrissey are essentially conceding that the state statute violates voters' constitutional right of free speech. 
Plaintiff attorney Michael Francisco told Arguello that merely agreeing not to prosecute voters who take selfies doesn't go far enough because Morrissey's website still says doing so is illegal. The mere threat of prosecution in Morrissey's news release chills free speech, he said, because convicted violators could face up to a year in jail and a $1,000 fine. 
Several people testified about the law and their concerns about being prosecuted for posting their ballots. 
Kiyomi Bulick, a public defender who works in Adams County, said attorneys including an acquaintance in the Colorado Attorney's Office e-mailed her after she posted a picture of her ballot online and told her about Morrissey's news release. One said, "Kiyomi, you criminal." She looked up the statute, realized she was in violation and worried about getting arrested and booked into jail. 
"The thought of being strip searched by deputies I see on a daily basis --that's a real concern for me," Bulick testified. "I don't want to get into trouble from my work. I don't want to be prosecuted. ... I weighed the consequences of what it would mean to me professionally." 
Scott Romano, an 18-year-old University of Denver student from Littleton, testified that he wanted to post a picture of his completed ballot as part of an article he wrote for Snapchat in hopes of persuading people his age to vote. But then he heard about Morrissey's news release. 
"I could face a year in jail because I post it," he testified. He decided not to post a picture of his ballot online. 
Deputy Secretary of State Suzanne Staiert recently said the law protects voters from undue voter coercion and voter fraud. It was established in 1891 in an effort to prevent vote-buying such as an incident in 1902 when a Wray saloon owner offered pig feet and whiskey to voters who would support moving the Yuma County seat to his town instead of the town of Yuma. The final vote was 707-324 in favor of Wray, according to an article in the Yuma Pioneer newspaper. 
Arguello could issue a decision Thursday, when the hearing continues, and the Colorado Libertarian party invited people to come to the Alfred A. Arraj U.S. District Courthouse with their marked ballots concealed in envelopes for a "demonstration of support." 
If Arguello issues the restraining order preventing law enforcement from enforcing the law, protesters plan to take a "group ballot selfie picture." 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Denver Post Corp. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Kirk Mitchell; Kirk Mitchell, The Denver Post, 'Federal judge considers blocking Colo. law that bans ballot selfies', Denver Post, The (online), 3 Nov 2016 1A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1607B6A6681590F0 
