Surrogates Bring Home Campaign -Party Members Debate National Issues, Support Candidates In Presidential Race 
October 19, 2016 | Hartford Courant, The (CT) 
Author: RUSSELL BLAIR 
Section: Connecticut 
567 Words 
Page: 1B 
OpenURL 
Link 
NEW BRITAIN -With Donald Trump continuing to complain of a "rigged election," the leader of the Republican Party in Connecticut sought to downplay those accusations, which Democrats say could erode confidence in the electoral process. 
"Do I think there's rampant voter fraud? No," JR Romano, the Republican state chairman, said during a surrogate debate Tuesday at Central Connecticut State University. "[But] when we're talking about government and the system, I don't think that it's a bad thing to make sure that we're getting it right." 
Romano's Democratic counterpart, state Rep. Matthew Lesser of Middletown, sharply disagreed. 
"I think it's outrageous," he said. "The last time we had major party presidential candidates saying you can't trust the results of an election was the eve of the Civil War." Lesser said Trump was "undermining confidence in the most basic democratic institutions of this country." 
As polls show Hillary Clinton's lead over Trump growing, he's increasingly been returning to talking points he brought up during the Republican primaries, when there was speculation that he could be denied the party's nomination at the Republican National Convention. 
"I've been saying this for a long time. The whole thing is one big fix," he said at a rally in North Carolina last week. 
Trump has also called on his supporters to monitor polling places in "certain areas," something Lindsay Farrell, Connecticut state director of the liberal Working Families Party, said was coded language referring to intimidation toward minority voters in inner cities. 
"We have a leader, a presidential candidate of a major party in this country, trying to undermine our democracy, to make his supporters believe that whatever the results are they are not legitimate," said Farrell, who joined Lesser in debating Romano and Suzanne Bates of the Yankee Institute for Public Policy. 
Bates said she interpreted Trump's remarks as his belief not that there was widespread voter fraud but rather that there was a "system of elites working hard to make sure that he and his voters are not heard." 
Much like Trump and Clinton, Romano and Lesser couldn't find much to agree about during the roughly 90-minute affair held before a small group in the university's student center on the eve of the third and 
final presidential debate. Romano said Clinton was dishonest, bad on foreign policy and wanted to raise taxes. Lesser charged that Trump had no policy plans and had made disparaging remarks about women, minorities and Gold Star families. 
During a discussion on college affordability, Lesser talked about Clinton's plan for making college debt-free, and said she best represented the interests of the students in the crowd. 
"Free college, it's never free," Romano countered. "It just means someone else is going to pay." 
Like other Democrats in the state, Lesser sought to tie Connecticut Republicans to Trump's most extreme remarks and views, and asked why they weren't backing away from their nominee. 
"I think Republicans for the most part are good people," Lesser said, before calling Trump's candidacy a "burning trash fire of a campaign." 
Responding to a question from the audience about the potential damage Trump has done to the Republican Party, Romano said he remained confident, and that the GOP in Connecticut had registered more new voters during the presidential primaries than the Democrats. 
"We're going to be fine," he said. "Because at the end of the day there's still lots of problems that have to be solved and we have a ton of ideas on how to solve those problems." 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Hartford Courant Co. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
RUSSELL BLAIR, rblair@courant.com, 'Surrogates Bring Home Campaign Party Members Debate National Issues, Support Candidates In Presidential Race', Hartford Courant, The (online), 19 Oct 2016 1B http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1601D1CB793DABD8 
