Alleged Illegalities -State Officials Blast Vote Fraud Claim Democrats Defend Election Results, Criticize Trump's Federal Investigation Plans 
January 28, 2017 | Hartford Courant, The (CT) 
Author: CHRISTOPHER KEATING 
Section: Connecticut 
608 Words 
Page: 1B 
OpenURL 
Link 
HARTFORD -Top Democrats blasted President Donald Trump's proposed investigation into widespread voter fraud Friday, saying there is no evidence that 3 to 5 million people voted illegally in the presidential election. 
Connecticut officials said they are confident that there was no widespread fraud in the state's elections this year. 
"Normally, allegations of wrongdoing are made by sore losers, not sore winners," said Secretary of the State Denise Merrill, who is also president of the national secretaries of state organization. "It is very surprising to me that the president would question the legitimacy of his own results. He won the election, fair and square, under the rules that we currently have. ... There is simply no evidence of widespread voter fraud." 
While Trump had promised on Twitter that he will ask for "a major investigation into voter fraud," he had not yet issued an executive order by Friday afternoon. 
In Connecticut, officials are investigating 16 allegations of possible in-person voter fraud in the 2016 elections, including the primaries and the presidential election. In November, more than 1.676 million votes were cast, which represents about .00095 percent of the total vote, Merrill said. 
Nationally, an academic study found 31 instances of voter impersonation out of more than 1 billion votes cast between 2000 and 2014, she said. 
If Trump orders an investigation, Merrill said her office will cooperate with federal officials, including the FBI. 
"I would stand by my judgment that, in Connecticut, they certainly will not find anything," Merrill said. "It's all too easy these days to imagine a conspiracy where there is none, and people are only too ready to believe it, sadly." 
At a news conference at the Capitol on Friday, officials said that registrars of voters across the state regularly check death certificates and obituaries -12 months a year -to delete dead voters from the rolls and update voters who have moved to other towns. 
U.S. Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Greenwich and U.S. Rep. Rosa DeLauro of New Haven both described Trump's proposed executive order as a "witch hunt." 
Blumenthal added, "These claims of widespread voter fraud are simply fiction." 
In recent statements, Trump has said flatly that millions of illegal votes went to his presidential rival, Democrat Hillary Clinton. 
"Of those votes cast, none of 'em come to me. None of 'em come to me. They would all be for the other side. None of 'em come to me," Trump said in an interview on ABC television. "Those were Hillary votes." 
On Twitter and on television, Trump raised the issue of fraud partly because some voters are registered in two states. While voting in two states would be fraudulent, the registration itself is not illegal. 
But public records show that some of Trump's top advisers and family members are registered in two states. Those include White House press secretary Sean Spicer, Treasury secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin, Trump's daughter Tiffany; and Jared Kushner, a top adviser who is married to Trump's daughter, Ivanka. 
"There's no violation of law to be registered in more than one state," Blumenthal said. "There's no reason to believe any member of the president's family or staff voted twice in this election, nor is there any evidence that anybody else voted illegally in any numbers. There may be miniscule, isolated, aberrant instances here and there, but nothing to justify this kind of massive investigation.'" 
DeLauro, a longtime liberal Democrat who has served in Congress for more than 25 years, said, "You are more likely to be hit by lightning or to win Powerball than you are to find voter fraud. The president is letting urban myths and debunked studies lead his governing. I believe it's a witch hunt against nonexistent fraud." 
Copyright (c) 2017 The Hartford Courant Co. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
CHRISTOPHER KEATING, ckeating@courant.com, 'Alleged Illegalities State Officials Blast Vote FraudClaimDemocrats DefendElectionResults,Criticize Trump's FederalInvestigationPlans', Hartford Courant, The (online), 28 Jan 2017 1B http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16231D95B8118018 
