Registration -New Voters -Signing Up -In Record Numbers 
October 31, 2016 | Hartford Courant, The (CT) Author: RUSSELL BLAIR 
Section: Main 
698 Words 
Page: 1A 
OpenURL 
Link 
HARTFORD -With less than two weeks until Election Day, the number of registered voters in Connecticut has hit a record high. 
As of the middle of last week, 2,100,021 people had signed up to cast a ballot on Nov. 8. The previous high of 2,097,000 was reached days before the 2008 election. The deadline to register to vote online, by mail or by visiting the registrar of voters is Tuesday, when local registrars are scheduled to be open from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Residents may also register in person on Election Day, however Secretary of the State Denise Merrill and other election officials are urging people to sign up ahead of time to avoid the potential for long lines. 
"Don't wait until the last minute," said Beth Sweeney, the Democratic registrar of voters in West Hartford. Sweeney said her office saw "immense registration" in person, online and through the Department of Motor Vehicles. 
"This will be a heavily trafficked vote on Nov. 8," she said. 
In Wethersfield, Camille Mogelnicki, the Democratic registrar of voters, said there has been a "very big increase" in registration, with September being a particularly busy month. She said elections staff were planning for the first presidential year with Election Day voter registration, and weren't sure how many people would take advantage of the option. 
"We've already seen so many register, it's hard to believe there may be others," Mogelnicki said. 
Voters who choose to participate in Election Day registration will have to go to one central location -often the town or city hall -that may not be the same as their polling place. 
Of the 2.1 million registered voters, 831,436 were unaffiliated. There were 790,188 Democrats and 452,245 Republicans, with the rest belonging to any of the 28 minor parties registered with the state. 
Merrill attributed the record registrations to a number of factors, including online registration and a streamlined system to register voters at the DMV. The new motor voter program registered 15,000 voters in its first month, more than the old program had in the past three years combined. A Facebook promotion in advance of National Voter Registration Day in late September registered nearly 15,000 new voters in a single weekend. 
On Friday, Merrill was reviewing a new election results reporting system that will make its debut on Election Day. That night users will be able to log on to review live town-by-town results as they are entered into the system by registrars. In past years the only information available on Merrill's website the day of the vote was scanned documents for each town that often weren't fully uploaded until the next day. 
Merrill, who serves as head of the National Association of Secretaries of State, dismissed concerns about hackers manipulating election results and Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump's rhetoric about a "rigged election." In-person voter fraud is extremely rare, she said. 
"It started with a question about can the election be hacked," Merrill said. "I think we have successfully made the point that there is no election equipment that actually tabulates results in the country ... that's connected to the internet." 
There are dead people registered to vote in Connecticut, as a UConn journalism project in 2008 uncovered, but those registrations are due to errors or people not being removed from the voter rolls rather than any attempt at fraud. 
Although it's tough to predict turnout, Merrill said she believed it would be in line with other presidential years, despite the turbulent campaign. In 2008, when President Barack Obama ran for his first term, turnout topped 78 percent. In 2012 turnout was just shy of 74 percent. 
"With all the talk I think it's going to be typical," Merrill said. "I think there's going to be some people who just don't vote because they don't like either candidate, so there's going to be some of that, and that may outweigh the [record registration]. I don't know what to think, this registration is pretty amazing." 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Hartford Courant Co. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
RUSSELL BLAIR, rblair@courant.com, 'Registration New Voters Signing Up In Record Numbers', Hartford Courant, The (online), 31 Oct 2016 1A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1605C4D35CB2D128 
