
COURT'S IN SESSSIONS - Trump taps Ala. senator for att'y general - Faced 'racist' claims in '80s
Newspaper November 19, 2016 | New York Daily News (NY)
Author: MEG WAGNER and CAMERON JOSEPH NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Section: NEWS 1111 Words
FRONT PAGE Page: 4
COURT'S IN SESSSIONS - Trump taps Ala. senator for att'y general - Faced 'racist' claims in '80s
PRESIDENT-ELECT Donald Trump has asked Alabama Sen. Jefferson Beauregard Sessions III to be the next U.S. attorney general, moving to award a top cabinet position to a close political ally with a troubling past.

Sessions, best known for his strident anti-immigration views and for being the first senator to back Trump's presidential campaign, has become one of Trump's most trusted advisers and has been playing a key role on his transition team.

The controversial senator was also once blocked for a nomination for a federal judgeship because of alleged racist comments.

"It is an honor to nominate U.S. Sen. Jeff Sessions to serve as attorney general of the United States," Trump said in a statement. "Jeff has been a highly respected member of the U.S. Senate for 20 years. He is a world-class legal mind and considered a truly great attorney general and U.S. attorney in the state of Alabama. Jeff is greatly admired by legal scholars and virtually everyone who knows him."

Sessions said he looks "forward to fulfilling my duties with an unwavering dedication to fairness and impartiality."

The Republican senator has been the Senate's most virulent foe to comprehensive immigration reform, scuttling efforts during President George W. Bush's tenure to change the law and reprising his role in the 2013 debates, mocking big businesses who backed the efforts.

"The administration is meeting with the elite, the cosmopolitan set, who scorn and mock the concerns of everyday Americans," he said at one point, words that sound much like the President-elect's views. "These great and powerful citizens of the world, we know, don't care much about old-fashioned things like national boundaries."

He took that rhetoric on the road in the past year, routinely appearing at Trump rallies to introduce his candidate around the country.

The former U.S. attorney must be confirmed by the Senate before he can take over from current Attorney General Loretta Lynch, the second time the 69-year-old will face Senate confirmation. His first round, for a federal judgeship in 1986, came to a halt when his alleged history of racist comments came to light.

While serving as U.S. attorney in Alabama, Sessions allegedly called a black assistant U.S. attorney "boy," insisted that the NAACP was "unAmerican" and "Communist-inspired," and agreed with a judge who called a white civil rights attorney a "disgrace to his race."

It wasn't just his rhetoric that worried the senators. Sessions charged three civil rights workers who'd helped boost black voting registration in Alabama to new heights with voter fraud. They were acquitted and Sessions was accused of attempted voter intimidation by civil rights organizations.

Sessions denied some of the allegations and claimed others were jokes, though he stood by his previous claim that the Voting Rights Act was a "piece of intrusive legislation." As attorney general, it would be his job to enforce that law, which he voted to extend in 2006, though the Supreme Court destroyed its major enforcement mechanism in 2013.

Sessions later withdrew from consideration for the judgeship, though he went on to become Alabama attorney general and won election to the U.S. Senate in 1996.

"Anybody who'd really put Jeff Sessions as head of the Justice Department with his record is not interested in uniting the country but dividing it further," Gerry Hebert, a civil rights attorney whose testimony helped sink Sessions' 1986 judicial confirmation, told the Daily News.

"The record over time hasn't demonstrated to me a commitment to enforcing voting rights laws, civil rights laws, pursuing equality and justice in an evenhanded way. and when you're attorney general you're the chief law enforcement officer in the U.S., and we have to have confidence the person at the top is someone who will," Hebert continued.

The comments prevented his nomination as judge from going forward, even though the Senate was in Republican hands at the time. But his genial demeanor and personal relationships with many of his colleagues may help him get through this time.

With 52 seats in the Senate, the Republicans can confirm any Trump cabinet pick as they long remain united, and a number of moderate senators in both parties, from Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) to Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), have already indicated they'll back his nomination.

Democrats are still expected to give him a thorough grilling.

"I know Senator Sessions and we work out in the gym, but the fact that he is a senator does not absolve him from answering tough questions in the confirmation process," incoming Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said. "Given some of his past statements and his staunch opposition to immigration reform, I am very concerned about what he would do with the Civil Rights Division at the Department of Justice and want to hear what he has to say."

Civil rights and First Amendment groups similarly are sounding the alarm, with the head of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights calling on Trump "to retract this announcement."

Trump also offered the position of CIA director to Congressman Mike Pompeo, a Republican from Kansas who served on the House Select Benghazi Committee and has been a vocal critic of President Obama's nuclear deal with Iran, and officially named former Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn as his national security advisor.

TRUMP'S INNER CIRCLE

STEPHEN BANNON

Chief strategist and senior counselor:

Bannon, 62, was the head of controversial conservative news site Breitbart before becoming Trump's campaign CEO this summer. Jewish groups and Democratic leaders have denounced Bannon's hiring and called on Trump to reconsider.

REINCE PREIBUS

White House chief of staff:

Priebus, the 44-year-old chairman of the Republican National Committee, has spent his career as a party official, is poised to be one of Trump's most important gatekeepers, controlling access to the President and providing counsel.

MICHAEL FLYNN

National security adviser:

Flynn, 57, served as the President-elect's top military adviser during the campaign. The former intelligence officer has promoted Islamophobia and clashed with the Obama administration as head of the Defense Intelligence Agency.

MIKE POMPEO

Director of the Central Intelligence Agency:

Pompeo, 52, attended Harvard Law School and founded an aerospace company. The Tea Party movement member graduated first in his class from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and is a fierce critic of the Iran nuclear deal and Hillary Clinton.

JEFF SESSIONS

Attorney general:

The Alabama senator, 69, was one of the first members of Congress to endorse Trump. He is known as one of the most conservative members of the Senate and was a Justice Department prosecutor for almost 15 years. The anti-immigrant, climate-change denier prosecuted civil rights activists for trying to register black voters in the 1980s.
Copyright, 2016 Daily News L.P. All Rights Reserved.
