
Lock him up in the cabinet! Petraeus eyes State - Spiller of top sexxx-rets latest show finalist
Newspaper November 29, 2016 | New York Daily News (NY)
Author: CAMERON JOSEPH NEWS WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF Section: NEWS 305 Words
Page: 10
Lock him up in the cabinet! Petraeus eyes State - Spiller of top sexxx-rets latest show finalist
EVEN TEAM Trump can't explain his comment that there were millions of fraudulent votes in the presidential election.

Asked for proof of the President-elect's claim, Trump spokesman Jason Miller cited a widely debunked Washington Post blog post and a Pew Charitable Trusts report from 2012 - and that report's author said Trump's camp has its facts wrong.

Responding to Green Party leader Jill Stein's push for election recounts in three states, Trump tweeted over the weekend that he "won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally."

He also claimed there was "serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and California," although officials in all three states say there wasn't.

In a conference call with reporters Monday morning, Miller blasted Stein's efforts as a "frivolous fund-raising scheme" before singling out the 2014 blog post and the Pew report, which found "that approximately 1 in 8 voter registrations are no longer valid."

But that report's author said they found no evidence of voter fraud.

"As primary author of the report the Trump camp cited today, I can confirm that report made no findings re: voter fraud," David Becker, Pew's former director of election initiatives, tweeted Monday. "We found millions of out-of-date registration records due to people moving or dying, but found no evidence that voter fraud resulted."

Trump's claims that millions of people had voted illegally seemed to stem not from the reports Miller cited Monday, but from a Nov. 13 tweet from Gregg Phillips, a board member of the conservative anti-voter-fraud group True the Vote, that claimed without evidence that it "verified more than 3 million votes cast by noncitizens."

White House spokesman Josh Earnest said Monday, "There has been no evidence produced to substantiate a claim like that."
Copyright, 2016 Daily News L.P. All Rights Reserved.
