
IN FRAUD HE TRUSTS - White House sticks to bogus ballots tale - 'Maybe' a fed probe of conspiracy theory
Newspaper January 25, 2017 | New York Daily News (NY)
Author: ADAM EDELMAN NEW YORK DAILY NEWS With News Wire Services Section: NEWS 1083 Words
FRONT PAGE Page: 6
IN FRAUD HE TRUSTS - White House sticks to bogus ballots tale - 'Maybe' a fed probe of conspiracy theory
THE WHITE HOUSE on Tuesday doubled down on President Trump's bizarre and debunked claim that massive voter fraud cheated him out of a popular vote victory - but won't commit to a federal investigation of the claims.

"He continues to maintain that belief based on studies and evidence that people have presented to him," Trump's press secretary Sean Spicer said when asked about reports the commander-in-chief told legislative leaders earlier this week that millions of illegal votes helped Hillary Clinton win the popular vote.

"As I noted, he's believed this for a long time . . . it's a longstanding belief that he's maintained," Spicer said.

"He believes what he believes based on the information he's been provided."

The phony charge - which Trump first made on Twitter while he was President-elect - has been debunked by state election officials and decried on both sides of the political aisle, but Trump is sticking to his guns.

Despite the belief in massive voter fraud, Spicer said Trump had no concerns that the phony votes affected his Electoral College tally.

"He won overwhelmingly with 306 electoral votes, the most since any Republican since Reagan," Spicer said.

Reagan's Republican successor, George H.W. Bush, actually nabbed more electoral votes than Trump as well - 426.

Spicer maintained Trump is "very comfortable with his win."

Asked if he had any evidence to support Trump's allegations, Spicer cited a 2008 Pew Research Center study that Trump himself has frequently referenced incorrectly, claiming that it proved 14% of voters in the election that year were not American citizens.

That study, however, does not corroborate those claims. The Pew study, released in 2012 and based in part on 2008 results, was about outdated or otherwise inaccurate voter registration records, not about votes illicitly cast by noncitizens.

The issue of noncitizen voting was examined in a 2014 study by two Old Dominion University professors who wrote about their findings in The Washington Post.

They said that an estimated 14 percent or more of noncitizens had registered to vote - a much smaller universe of people. Moreover, only "some of these noncitizens voted," they said. Their "best guess" was that 6.4% of noncitizens voted in 2008 and 2.2% in 2010. Even those modest numbers were sharply disputed by other academics because of the study's methodology.

Spicer declined to identify any of the other "studies and evidence" the President was referring to.

When asked by a reporter during the briefing if his boss wanted to see a formal investigation into his claims, Spicer wouldn't rule it out, but hardly sounded enthusiastic.

"Maybe we will," he said. "We'll see where we go from here."

"We're here on day two, let's not prejudge what we may or may not do in the future," he continued, when repeatedly pressed on whether Trump would demand a probe.

"Anything is possible," he said, before adding that he hadn't discussed at any point a possible investigation with Trump.

Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) said he was concerned about Trump's claims.

"I wasn't there, but if the President of the United States is claiming that 3.5 million people voted illegally, that shakes confidence in our democracy - he needs to disclose why he believes that," Graham told CNN on Tuesday.

"People are going to start doubting you as a person if you keep making accusations against our electoral system without justification," Graham said. "This is going to erode his ability to govern this country if he does not stop it."

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said Trump should focus on his job.

"The President ought to realize he's President. Instead of talking about the election, or how many people showed up at the inauguration, he ought to talk about how many new jobs he's created. It's time to be President," Schumer said.

On Saturday, Spicer made several false claims, including the assertion that Trump's swearing-in drew "the largest audience to witness an inauguration, period."

A day later, his colleague Kellyanne Conway defended him, saying that he merely had offered "alternative facts."

Spicer started off his briefing Tuesday by fielding a question from a reporter from Lifezette, a website founded by Trump supporter Laura Ingraham that published some untrue stories during the 2016 Presidential campaign.

In October, Lifezette released a video, "Clinton Body Count," that promoted a conspiracy theory that Hillary and Bill Clinton had ties to the deaths of several colleagues and Democrats. Another video posted two weeks before the election promoted false claims that voting machines in 16 states could be compromised because they were linked to a company tied to liberal activist George Soros.

The President started his day off Tuesday with a meeting of auto industry executives, his second in as many days with business leaders.

The CEOs of General Motors, Ford Motor and Fiat Chrysler visited Trump in Washington, where the new President said he pushed them to increase their production efforts inside U.S. borders.

"Will be meeting at 9:00 with top automobile executives concerning jobs in America. I want new plants to be built here for cars sold here!" Trump tweeted Tuesday ahead of the meeting.

Trump has repeatedly taken aim at the auto industry in speeches and on Twitter, accusing it of not doing enough to keep jobs in America.

Later in the day he spoke on the phone with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and met with his newly sworn-in CIA Director Mike Pompeo.

Sidebar: THE TALK VS. TRUTH

Sean Spicer (below), press secretary to President Trump, had a lot to say about the Electoral College margin and possible voter fraud, but he did not have the facts on his side.

DON'T FORGET '88

SPICER: "He won overwhelmingly with 306 electoral votes, the most since any Republican since Reagan."

THE FACTS: Not the most since Ronald Reagan, and not an overwhelming victory by history's standards. You only have to go back to George H.W. Bush in 1988 to find a bigger Republican Electoral College winner. Bush captured 426 electoral votes, or 79%, well ahead of Trump with 306 electoral votes, or 57%.

'STUDY' HARDER, SEAN

SPICER: "I think there's been studies. There's one that came out of Pew (Research Center) in 2008 that showed 14% of people who voted were noncitizens."

THE FACTS: First, Spicer mixed up studies. Second, he misrepresented the conclusions. The Pew study, released in 2012 and based in part on 2008 results, was about outdated or otherwise inaccurate voter registration records, not about votes illicitly cast by noncitizens.

SOURCE: AP
Copyright, 2017 Daily News L.P. All Rights Reserved.
