
He still believes - Don ties vote 'fraud' to 1 man with no evidence
Newspaper January 28, 2017 | New York Daily News (NY)
Author: CAMERON JOSEPH NEWS WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF Section: NEWS 374 Words
Page: 6
He still believes - Don ties vote 'fraud' to 1 man with no evidence
WASHINGTON - President Trump quadrupled down on his claim that "at least" 3 million illegal votes were cast in the presidential election, costing him a popular vote win - this time explicitly name-checking a man who, without providing any evidence, has been at the center of those claims.

"Look forward to seeing final results of VoteStand. Gregg Phillips and crew say at least 3,000,000 votes were illegal. We must do better!" Trump tweeted Friday morning.

The Gregg Phillips (photo) that Trump mentions is a former mid-level state government official who created the right-wing conspiracy theory after the election that millions of undocumented immigrants voted illegally in the 2016 election.

The tweet came shortly after Phillips made an appearance on CNN to defend his claims. Phillips has repeatedly refused to provide any evidence of that claim, which spread like wildfire across right-wing websites that often promote conspiracy theories like InfoWars.com.

"We have verified more than 3 million votes cast by non-citizens. We are joining @truethevote to initiate legal action," Phillips tweeted shortly after the election, causing a firestorm on the right that has ignited the White House. "Completed analysis of database of 180 million voter registrations. Number of non-citizen votes exceeds 3 million. Consulting legal team."

In the months since, he's provided zero evidence that is true - while outright refusing to provide any data to reporters upon request.

Phillips told the Daily News shortly after Trump's tweet that he found the shout-out "humbling."

But it didn't make him any more willing to share details of his methodology or how he'd arrived at his conclusions.

"I'm not dancing around anything. This will be released to the people in full form, raw data, methodology, outcomes, outputs, everything, when we're done, when we release it to the people," he said. "I'm not going to release it to the media before I release it to the American people. Period."

And he said he's "months away" from releasing any data or proof.

Phillips is the co-founder of an app called VoteStand, which let users report "suspicious" activity at voting sites. A press release the day before the election said the app had "scores" of "verified complaints ranging from voting machine malfunction, lax voter ID enforcement, absentee ballot problems and unlawful poll worker training" during early voting.
Copyright, 2017 Daily News L.P. All Rights Reserved.
