
Trump has a 'truth'-ache
Newspaper October 20, 2016 | New York Daily News (NY)
Author: ADAM EDELMAN NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Section: NEWS 361 Words
Page: 8
Trump has a 'truth'-ache
THE DAILY NEWS fact-checked Wednesday night's third and final presidential debate between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton - and found numerous falsehoods on Trump's part.

Trump-Putin relationship

TRUMP: "I don't know Putin. If we got along well, that would be good," he said several times, rejecting the claim that he and Russian strongman Vladimir Putin were friends.

FALSE: Trump has repeatedly boasted of close ties to Russia and on multiple occasions said he had, in fact, met Putin. During a 2013 interview with MSNBC, Trump was asked if had "a relationship with Vladimir Putin," to which he replied, "I do have a relationship." During a November 2015 GOP debate, Trump further said of Putin: "I got to know him very well because we were both on '60 Minutes.' We were stablemates, and we did very well that night."

WikiLeaks

CLINTON: Clinton brought up that the recent releases of Clinton-campaign-related documents by WikiLeaks was only possible because of hacking by Russian intelligence and given to WikiLeaks in an effort to interfere with the election. Trump has pooh-poohed the claims.

TRUE: There is growing evidence from U.S. intelligence officials that Russia is behind the hacks of emails related to the Clinton campaign. Russia was definitely behind the hacks of the Democratic National Committee servers this year.

Voter fraud

TRUMP: Trump reiterated his warning that the general election is "rigged."FALSE: In reality, voter fraud is extremely rare. According to a recent Loyola Law School study, there were, between 2000 and 2014, only 31 known cases of voter impersonation fraud out of 1 billion votes cast.

Groping allegations

TRUMP: He denied saying he couldn't have made inappropriate advances on women because they weren't attractive enough. He also said "those stories have been largely debunked."

FALSE: The candidate said of a People magazine writer who accused him of unwanted kissing: "Take a look, you take a look, look at her, look at her words - you tell me what you think. I don't think so." Her story has also been corroborated by six people who said she told them of the advance.
Copyright, 2016 Daily News L.P. All Rights Reserved.
