IT'S INK &amp; STINK - Prez signs flood of early orders - Battles back on crowds, elex fraud
Newspaper January 29, 2017 | New York Daily News (NY)
Author: ADAM EDELMAN NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Section: NEWS 1227 Words
Page: 6
IT'S INK &amp; STINK - Prez signs flood of early orders - Battles back on crowds, elex fraud
HE RAISED a furor over crowd sizes at his inauguration and hurled accusations of voter fraud about an election he won, but President Trump still managed to have one of the busiest first weeks in office in U.S. history.

It included signing more than a dozen executive orders - some symbolic, some massive in impact - and touching off two international incidents.

"Trump said time and time again that politicians are all talk and no action," said presidential historian Michael Purdy. "Now he's up to bat and he needs to demonstrate that he's all action."

Most of Trump's executive orders took aim at satisfying campaign promises, including his pledge to repeal Obamacare, build a wall on the Mexican border and institute "extreme vetting" for people coming from countries with "terror concerns."

Trump's tough talk on the wall caused the Mexican president to cancel a scheduled meeting with him this week, and his action temporarily barring Iranian nationals from entering the U.S. led Iranian officials to vow Saturday they'd "retaliate."

"Get used to it. @POTUS is a man of action and impact. Promises made, promises kept. Shock to the system. And he's just getting started," Trump's White House counselor, Kellyanne Conway, tweeted Saturday morning.

But while the sheer number of first-week actions significantly surpass any signed by the past three Presidents - and help advance the narrative that he's an outsider who will get things done - they fall well short of the myriad promises he made on the campaign trail about what he'd accomplish in his first days.

Trump's busy first week - or eight days - started hours after he was inaugurated, when he signed a vague order granting federal agencies the power to minimize "the economic burden" of Obamacare.

That order was largely symbolic - but a second he signed that day, which implemented an "immediate regulatory freeze" on pending federal regulations, was not.

On Monday, he officially killed the Trans-Pacific Partnership, signing an executive order to pull the U.S. out of the massive trade deal - one of his central campaign promises - before putting his John Hancock on three other orders.

One instituted a freeze on hiring federal workers, while another put back in place a ban on using U.S. aid money to support foreign and international groups who provide or promote abortion services. A fourth officially declared his inauguration a national day of patriotism.

With another two strokes of the pen on Tuesday, Trump advanced construction on the controversial Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines - another fulfilled campaign promise that was decried by environmentalists who had been fighting the pipelines for years.

On Wednesday, day six, he signed an order to jump-start construction of a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border - something he'd promised in his campaign announcement.

Another that day aimed at stripping federal funds for so-called "sanctuary cities" that don't arrest or detain immigrants living in the U.S. illegally. New York City officials says that could potentially cost the Big Apple more than $130 million in federal funds.

On Friday, he signed an order calling for a "rebuilding" of the armed forces - and the "extreme vetting" order that has left visa holders and refugees from Muslim countries trapped in a legal limbo.

Trump's swift week one pace is significantly faster in comparison with the number of executive orders and other unilateral actions taken by the past several U.S Presidents.

Former President Barack Obama signed five order during his first week in office (the most prominent was his order to close the Guantanamo Bay detention center within a year - which never happened); former President George W. Bush signed two (both pertained to allowing faith-based organizations to receive federal funding), and former President Bill Clinton also inked two (one pertained to ethics rules for executive branch appointees and the other established the National Economic Council), according to the Pew Research Center.

And, of all of these commanders-in-chief, only Trump and Clinton signed executive orders within their first 24 hours of being sworn in.

Historian Purdy noted that most of Trump's orders have been symbolic - the Obamacare memo, for example, doesn't actually have any affect on the law, which needs to be dismantled through legislation.

"He's always been a master marketer, and now that he's President, he's made good use of these executive orders, in terms of them becoming media events," Purdy, who runs PresidentialHistory.com, said. "He's sitting at his desk in the Oval Office and signing them in front of cameras."

Doing so allows the orders to "become visible steps he can take so there is proof he is doing things he said he would do," added Purdy.

"It remains to be seen how much of what he's signed will really in fact change things, or if they are just the only steps he can take at this time to make him look as if he's accomplishing goals," Purdy said.

Despite his frantic pace, President Trump is still falling short of the promises made by candidate Trump.

Candidate Trump vowed to begin deporting approximately 2 million undocumented immigrants who have criminal records - "Day one, my first hour in office, those people are gone" he said in October.

On trade, he made good on his promise to scrap the Trans-Pacific Partnership, but has yet to take any formal action to "renegotiate NAFTA (the North American Free Trade Agreement) or withdraw from the deal" or direct the "secretary of the Treasury to label China a currency manipulator."

Other day one promises included proposing "a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress," a comprehensive "fix" to the Department of Veterans Affairs ("It's a day one project," then-vice presidential nominee Mike Pence said in October 2016) and "eliminating gun-free zones at schools," which Trump promised during a rally in January 2016.

Timeline: Yes, it's only been a week. Here's a look at hte orders president Trump has signed in his first 8 days in office.

DAY 1:

Signed an order granting federal agencies the power to minimize "the economic burden" of Obamacare - a largely symbolic move.

Signed an order implementing an "immediate regulatory freeze" on pending regulations, which stopped new regulations across federal government agencies from going into effect pending review by the Trump administration.

DAY 4:

Signed an order immediately blocking federal funding to international health groups whose services include abortion.

Signed an order officially withdrawing the United States from participation in the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade deal he called "lousy." The order had immediate effect.

Signed an order calling for an immediate hiring freeze across the federal government with limited exceptions, including the military.

Signed a symbolic order declaring his Inauguration Day a day of patriotism.

DAY 5:

Signed orders allowing construction on the Dakota Access and Keystone XL pipelines.

Signed a symbolic order directing the Commerce Department to come up with a plan to use U.S. steel for pipeline projects.

DAY 6:

Signed an order calling for the U.S. attorney general and Homeland Security Department to find ways to cut off federal revenue streams for "sanctuary cities" like New York. Practical effect unclear.

Signed an order for "immediate construction of a physical wall" on the U.S.-Mexico border, hiring more Border Patrol agents and increasing detention center space. Planning for all three are now underway.

DAY 8:

Signed an order for a "great rebuilding" of the armed services. Practical effect is unclear.

Signed order barring visa holders, refugees and immigrants from seven majority Muslim countries from entering the U.S., some temporarily, and in the case of Syria, indefinitely. Had immediate effect.
Copyright, 2017 Daily News L.P. All Rights Reserved.
