
Vote for justice! Victim of DA's 'malicious' fraud case in new appeal
Newspaper November 1, 2016 | New York Daily News (NY)
Author: CHRISTINA CARREGA-WOODBY NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Section: NEWS 441 Words
EXCLUSIVE Page: 12
Vote for justice! Victim of DA's 'malicious' fraud case in new appeal
ATTORNEY John O'Hara has fought for two decades to overturn what he says was a wrongful voter fraud conviction against him - and he's still holding out hope the Brooklyn district attorney's office will clear his name.

O'Hara, a political activist who once ran for City Council and Assembly in the 1990s, was hit with voter fraud charges by then-Brooklyn DA Charles Hynes. O'Hara says the legal attack was political retribution.

When Kenneth Thompson ran a successful election campaign against Hynes in 2013, he promised to overturn O'Hara's felony conviction, according to O'Hara's lawyer.

But the case is still in the Brooklyn DA's Conviction Review Unit, his lawyer said.

"Thompson told me directly that we will get justice for John," said attorney Dennis Kelly.

Thompson died Oct. 9.

O'Hara filed a motion requesting an evidentiary hearing in January 2015, hoping to convince the courts to exonerate him.

"Former District Attorney Hynes singled out O'Hara for prosecution, as an act of political retribution, while turning a blind eye to similar acts by others, including, most extraordinarily, himself and others in his prosecutorial office," the 2015 motion said. It also noted that O'Hara was tried three times before Hynes could make the conviction stick.

This past September, O'Hara and his lawyer received a notice from Justice Miriam Cyrulnik telling them to expect a Nov. 1 hearing of their case.

O'Hara had hoped his exoneration was imminent - but Kelly later found out that was not to be."Nothing is expected to happen. We don't understand why," said Kelly, who doesn't plan on showing up for the hearing.

It wasn't even noted as an official court appearance on the Brooklyn judges' calendars, he added.

"Overturning John's conviction is clear-cut . . . he was maliciously prosecuted," Kelly said.

O'Hara was prosecuted by Hynes for registering and voting from his girlfriend's apartment on 47th St. in Brooklyn.

He also maintained an apartment at his prior registration address on 61st St., records showed.

O'Hara, who served 1,500 hours of community service, including picking up garbage in his Sunset Park neighborhood, paid $20,000 in fines. He served five years on probation and lost his law license due to the felony conviction.

In 2009, he was reinstated to practice law by the Appellate Division, which said he shouldn't have been disbarred in the first place, he said.

"But I'm still a convicted felon," O'Hara noted.

Others with similar allegations settled their cases in civil court, according to the motion.

Since O'Hara's law license was reinstated, he's worked on several cases pro bono, like the exoneration of accused killer David McCallum and the estate of Judge John Phillips in a wrongful death suit.
Copyright, 2016 Daily News L.P. All Rights Reserved.
