
'COUNT' CRAPULA - Sore winner Trump's wild claim - 'Millions' of cheaters cost me popular vote
Newspaper November 28, 2016 | New York Daily News (NY)
Author: VICTORIA BEKIEMPIS and ADAM EDELMAN NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Section: NEWS 631 Words
Page: 7
'COUNT' CRAPULA - Sore winner Trump's wild claim - 'Millions' of cheaters cost me popular vote
DONALD TRUMP spent his Sunday slamming Hillary Clinton over her campaign's decision to assist with a recount request in three swing states and insisting without evidence that if it weren't for "millions of people who voted illegally," he would have won the popular vote.

"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally," Trump posted to his Twitter account toward the end of an hourslong tirade.

"It would have been much easier for me to win the so-called popular vote than the Electoral College in that I would only campaign in 3 or 4 ... states instead of the 15 states that I visited. I would have won even more easily and convincingly (but smaller states are forgotten)!" he added.

Trump won the election by beating Clinton in the Electoral College 290 to 232. He lost the popular vote, however, by more than 2 million votes.

There is no evidence any widespread voter fraud occurred during the 2016 election, although Green Party nominee Jill Stein has launched a recount effort in Wisconsin amid questions over Russian interference in tallying the results - an effort that Trump tweeted was "sad."

"Hillary Clinton conceded the election when she called me just prior to the victory speech and after the results were in. Nothing will change," Trump tweeted earlier Sunday.

"I, for one, am appalled," Trump added, after tweeting parts of Clinton's concession speech, in which she told supporters they must accept that "Donald Trump is going to be our President."

His criticisms came a day after a lawyer for the Clinton campaign said the Democratic nominee's remaining team would participate in any recount request Stein files, but would not spearhead any of its own.

"Now that a recount has been initiated in Wisconsin, we intend to participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to all sides," Marc Elias, general counsel to the Clinton campaign, wrote in a statement Saturday.

Elias stressed, however, that the campaign's own analysts hadn't come across evidence of irregularities.

Stein filed for a recount in Wisconsin Friday afternoon. She has vowed to do the same in Pennsylvania and Michigan, raising more than $4 million to fund the trio of do-overs.

Trump won all three of those states by narrow margins. Michigan's results, which show Trump leading by just over 11,000 votes, have not yet been certified.

The three states in question could tip the electoral balance to Clinton in the remote event they all flip after recounts.

The Clinton campaign has said it would go along with Stein's other recounts, too, if she files for them. The deadline to petition Pennsylvania for a recount is Monday, while Michigan's is Wednesday.

On Saturday, Stein announced that she'd file for a recount in any state where the deadline has not yet passed.

But fellow Democrats suggested that a recount was either a bad idea, or an ineffectual one.

"It's their decision. They ran a tough race," Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), who is running for his party's leadership position in the House, said on NBC's "Meet the Press."

"I would counsel against it, but I'm moving on," Ryan said.

Bernie Sanders, who said he didn't oppose the recount, predicted its outcome would have no effect.

"It's not a big deal. I don't think anybody, Secretary Clinton or anybody else, thinks that there's going to be profound changes. And we will see what happens," he said on ABC's "This Week."
Copyright, 2016 Daily News L.P. All Rights Reserved.
