
FRAUD CRUSADE - Donald to seek vote probe - Quest for proof Hil didn't beat him by 3 mil
Newspaper January 27, 2017 | New York Daily News (NY)
Author: CAMERON JOSEPH WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF With Chris Sommerfeldt Section: NEWS 803 Words
Page: 8
FRAUD CRUSADE - Donald to seek vote probe - Quest for proof Hil didn't beat him by 3 mil
WASHINGTON - President Trump will sign an executive order to look into voter fraud, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer announced Thursday, though by the end of the day that order had yet to materialize.

"It will be a follow-up on the announcement yesterday to better understand voter fraud," Spicer said to a gaggle of reporters on Air Force One early Thursday.

It's far from clear what exactly that will entail, as the White House has been scrambling ever since Trump earlier this week repeated the evidence-free assertion that he'd lost the popular vote because millions of people had voted illegally. And by day's end, a scheduled Oval Office signing of the promised document had been canceled.

"The President got back a little late and he got jammed up on some meetings that needed to occur, and so we're going to roll all that into Friday and Saturday," Spicer announced Thursday evening.

On Wednesday, Spicer sought to square the circle between Trump's false claim and reality by pivoting to concerns about voting rolls not being updated. One has little to do with the other, and does not support Trump's unfounded concerns about widespread voter fraud.

Trump himself raised the issue on Thursday, though he was predictably vague on any specifics.

"We also need to keep the ballot box safe from illegal voting. And believe me, you take a look at what's registering, folks ... We're going to protect the integrity of the ballot box and we're going to defend the votes of the American citizen. So important," he told GOP lawmakers at a Republican retreat in Philadelphia.

Many dead people remain on voter rolls, as well as many people who've moved are registered to vote in multiple places, but there has been zero evidence of widespread voter fraud in the 2016 election - or any recent national or statewide campaigns.

Reports have found some of Trump's own top allies are registered to vote in two states, including Spicer, Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and top advisor, top advisor Steve Bannon and treasury secretary nominee Steve Mnuchin.

There are no allegations any of them voted illegally.

Trump advisor Kellyanne Conway denied on the "Today" show Thursday that Trump's daughter Tiffany also was, even though online records show she's still registered in both Pennsylvania and New York.

Vice President Mike Pence told members of Congress that the Trump administration will launch a "full evaluation" of U.S. voting rolls and "the overall integrity of our voting system," according to a leaked audio recording obtained by the Guardian newspaper."We'll be looking at ways to work with you and follow the facts and see where the facts go," Pence said.

The delay in unveiling and signing the order is the latest in a rocky start for the Trump administration, following days of chaos in the White House. Much of that has come from Trump himself, who was furious with how the press reported on his inauguration's crowd size over the weekend and then repeated the false claim that between 3 million and 5 million people voted illegally in the 2016 election, depriving him on a popular vote victory, in a Monday meeting with Hill lawmakers.

He's refused to back down from the charge in recent days, claiming in a Wednesday night interview with ABC's David Muir that those votes happened - and all had been for Hillary Clinton.

"Of those votes cast, none of 'em come to me. None of 'em come to me. They would all be for the other side. None of 'em come to me," Trump said. "Those were Hillary votes."

Muir, meanwhile, was the focus of a bizarre exchange between Trump and Sean Hannity in an interview that aired on Fox News Channel Thursday night.

Hannity asked Trump if he thought Muir, who'd pointed out to the President that experts have said torture was not effective, would feel the same way if he had a child kidnapped.

"I would ask David Muir, if they kidnapped your kid and you have one of the kidnappers, what would you do to get the location of your child?" Hannity said. Trump responded, "Or would you want him to talk in 48 hours from now by being nice to him, OK? ... And by that time, it's too late."

In the same interview, Hannity asked Trump about Madonna's comments about blowing up the White House at the women's march.

"Honestly, she's disgusting. I think she hurt herself very badly," Trump said.

TWO-STATE SOLUTION

President Trump alleges mass voter fraud. That claim seems dubious, but five members of his inner circle appear to be registered in two states.

JARED KUSHNER

New Jersey, New York

STEVE MNUCHIN

California, New York

STEVE BANNON

Florida, New York

TIFFANY TRUMP

Pennsylvania, New York

SEAN SPICER

Virginia, Rhode Island
Copyright, 2017 Daily News L.P. All Rights Reserved.
