 
        Tarrant County group claims seniors are being intimidated into
not voting By: Steele, Tom. Dallas Morning News, The (TX). 10/29/2016. 


Oct. 29--Hispanic leaders in Tarrant County have filed a complaint with
the U.S. Justice Department, alleging that senior citizens are being
intimidated into not voting.

The Fort Worth Star-Telegram reports that the complaint from the United
Hispanic Council of Tarrant County says a voter-fraud investigation has
"left a trail of confused and upset seniors who are now afraid of
voting," either in person or by absentee ballot.

Concerns have arisen over mail-in ballots, which some people think can
lead to "vote harvesting" -- the illegal process of filling out and
returning the ballots of valid voters without their consent.

The complaint alleges that political activists are making
"vigilante-style" door-to-door visits, claiming to be investigating
voter fraud.

"This is voter suppression," Fort Worth Councilman Sal Espino told the
Star-Telegram. "When these people go talk to seniors, they are accusing
them of doing something wrong, making it seem as though they shouldn't
have voted by mail."

Mail-in ballots are designed for voters who are unable to leave their
homes, are in jail or out of the country.

Supporters argue that such ballots is critical for people who cannot
vote by other means. But critics say the process allows people to vote
without verifying their identities, thereby opening the door for abuse.

Aaron Harris, a Republican political consultant, has led
anti-voter-fraud efforts in Tarrant County and is promoting an "Election
Integrity Tip Hotline" that offers a $5,000 reward for information that
leads to a conviction.

After learning of the United Hispanic Council's complaint, Harris took
to Facebook, posting: "So I expose the fraud, and those who are stealing
the votes and suppressing voters want to sue me."

The Justice Department said it had not received the complaint and could
not comment at this time.

Claims of electoral fraud have swirled this year, kindled by Republican
presidential nominee Donald Trump's repeated claims of vote-rigging.

But experts have said that voter fraud is incredibly rare, with one
study finding 31 instances of voter impersonation from 2000 to 2014 -- a
period when more than 1 billion ballots were cast.

Some observers say investigations of alleged voter fraud are motivated
by politics, while others think such probes are tackling a pervasive
issue.

"The Republicans have been looking for a blockbuster case to demonstrate
that voter fraud isn't just a series of small mistakes," Brandon
Rottinghaus, a political-science professor at the University of Houston,
told the Star-Telegram. "If some of these allegations turn out to be
true, they may finally have their white whale."

