
        Mark Cuban had a very tongue-in-cheek take on player All-Star
voting and Trump's voter fraud claims By: Grosbard, Adam. Dallas Morning
News, The (TX). 01/26/2017.     


Jan. 26--Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban was asked about NBA players
not taking their new role in All-Star voting seriously on Wednesday
night and turned his answer into a tongue-in-cheek take on President
Donald Trump's unsubstantiated claim that wide-spread voter fraud cost
him the popular vote in November's presidential election.

NBA players clearly did not take All-Star voting seriously, with career
role players such as JaVale McGee receiving four votes and some players
who have not stepped on the court this year receiving votes.

Cuban blamed this on "voter fraud."

"It must have been voter fraud because I would bet JaVale McGee really
got 3 million," Cuban joked before the Mavericks faced the Knicks. "Him
and A.J. Hammons probably split that. I know I was registered with five
different teams and I'm not eligible to vote."

Trump and his press secretary, Sean Spicer, have claimed that millions
of votes were cast illegally in November, blaming people being
registered to vote in multiple states as a possible cause.

Cuban then joked that the NBA had gone to "the Electoral College
format," which is the means by which Trump won the presidency. He also
joked that some players would have "campaigned" harder in certain states
if they were worried about the outcome of the All-Star vote. Hillary
Clinton has been criticized for failing to campaign in some critical
states like Michigan that swung in Trump's favor.

"It's just unfortunate but when we went to the Electoral College format,
I know they won the popular vote but we went away from the popular vote
to the Electoral College version of NBA voting. That is what you get. I
think Donald Trump tweeted about it a couple years ago and he was
right," Cuban continued. "If the guys who were All-Stars won in the NBA
electoral college, if they would have thought they were at risk they
would have campaigned in different games. But the system is the system.
... No alternative facts, that's exactly what I believe."

Cuban then cracked that he will call on NBA commissioner Adam Silver to
conduct a full investigation into the affair.

"There's a Pew study that talks about the difference between straight-up
fan votings and the electoral voting. They said there's vote fraud but
it's just what I believe. I'll talk to Adam and call for an
investigation. Damn NBA electoral college."

Cuban, an independent, campaigned for Clinton during the general
election and was critical of Trump's policy and behavior during the
campaign.

Twitter: @AdamGrosbard

