 
        Trump claim of voter fraud stems from former Texas politico By:
Moffeit, Miles. Dallas Morning News, The (TX). 01/28/2017.     


Jan. 28--**

The man behind President Donald Trump's dubious claims that millions of
people voted illegally has a troubled history in Texas and Mississippi.

In a Twitter post early Friday, Trump cited Gregg Phillips' repeated
contention that 3 million people illegally cast ballots in last year's
general election.

Phillips has made the assertion in his own tweets, which have been
repeated on social media thousand of times in recent weeks.

But he has provided no documentation to back them up. And experts are
highly skeptical about his claims.

A Republican affiliated with a group called True the Vote, Phillips
previously worked at several state health agencies, where he was
criticized for making decisions that benefited himself and his business
associates.

Phillips has denied improper efforts to steer contracts, and said in the
past he broke no rules or laws. On Friday, he told The Dallas Morning
News that he has "never profited" from his government work.

As The News has reported, Phillips presided over privatization
initiatives as Mississippi's human services chief in the 1990s. State
legislators accused him of creating "an appearance of impropriety" by
awarding a company a $557,000 contract and then going to work for it.
Phillips said he was cleared by that state's ethics commission of
wrongdoing.

He later joined Texas Health and Human Services. In 2009, The News
reported that he had championed efforts to turn over government work to
private contractors. These deals were supposed to save money, but some
were plagued by cost overruns and technical problems.

One project, replacing state welfare administrators with call center
companies, cost taxpayers more than $250 million but didn't work
properly for years. Phillips said those problems occurred after he left
office, and that his efforts led to other savings to Texas that weren't
reported.

The Houston Chronicle raised questions about whether Phillips personally
profited from decisions he made when he was with the Texas agency. He
won government outsourcing contracts from Texas after leaving his state
job in 2004.

In 2015, Phillips was again the subject of newspaper reports involving
government contracts with a tech company.

An Austin technology firm, 21CT, had procured a multimillion-dollar
contract with the Texas health agency, without competitive bidding. The
official who approved that deal, who was later fired, had worked for
Phillips and Phillips had introduced him to the head of 21CT.

Phillips told The News on Friday that he will release his data proving
that 3 million people "committed multiple felonies" by voting in the
election. But he refused to cite a date, as he has numerous times in
interviews with news outlets. "We're going to be cautious," he said,
"that we have eliminated most possibilities of a false positive in the
data."

Staff writer David McSwane contributed to this story.

