 
        Some fear Trump's voter fraud investigation could lead to voter
suppression By: Leslie, Katie. Dallas Morning News, The (TX).
01/26/2017.     


Jan. 26--WASHINGTON -- President Donald Trump's call on Wednesday for a
"major investigation" into voter fraud, despite no evidence to support
his claims that millions of ballots cast illegally cost him the popular
vote, led many critics to pounce on him as thin-skinned.

But some voting rights experts and Democrats say they fear something
more pernicious than a bruised ego at play: a long-range bid to impose
tougher voting requirements nationwide.

"They're not lies for the sake of lies -- they're constructed for a
purpose," said Danielle Lang, the deputy director of voting rights with
the nonpartisan Campaign Legal Center in Washington. "What we know is
that, while widespread voter fraud is not real, there's been a
decade-long campaign to convince American people that it is real in
order to support voter ID laws, and laws that make it harder, not easier
to vote."

For years, GOP and Democratic lawmakers have battled over voting
requirements, including photo ID laws and early voting restrictions.
Republicans say the measures are needed to eliminate fraud, while
Democrats and advocates say many of the restrictions are unnecessary and
place undue burden on minorities and the elderly.

The issue is especially raw in Texas, where a GOP-backed law requiring
voters to present photo ID has been found by federal courts to be in
violation of the Voting Rights Act. This week, the Supreme Court
declined to hear Texas officials' appeal in the case, at least for now.

Though state election officials, lawmakers from both sides of the aisle
and even Trump's legal team have refuted the president's claim that
widespread voter fraud exists or affected the outcome of the 2016
presidential contest, some Democrats say his statements give Republicans
tacit encouragement to push for voting rights restrictions nationwide.

"This sets the table for more dramatic changes to voting rights during
his presidency, and curtailing voting rights," San Antonio Rep. Joaquin
Castro, a Democrat, said of Trump's tweets. "It makes me wonder how many
large bold-faced lies this man can tell before Republican leaders call
him out on it, and get off this train."

Though Speaker Paul Ryan and South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham have
said there's no evidence of widespread voter fraud, other Republicans
have been more cautious.

Earlier this week, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell told reporters
that some Americans have been jailed for voter fraud. But McConnell
avoided answering a direct question about Trump's belief that millions
voted illegally.

Texas Republicans are walking similar political tightropes, with Gov.
Greg Abbott telling Fox News that "voter fraud is real" and should be
addressed. Abbott made clear, however, that he has no information about
potential fraud in the November election.

Asked about Abbott's statement that voter fraud is a problem in Texas,
Attorney General Ken Paxton said that he wasn't aware of any complaints
about the 2016 election but that his office was involved in two voter
fraud cases from a previous election.

"We're constantly involved in those types of issues," he said.

At the White House on Wednesday, a day after playing down the
possibility the Trump administration would pursue an investigation into
Trump's claim that between 3 million and 5 million voted illegally,
press secretary Sean Spicer told reporters that the president's call
"isn't just about the 2016 election; this is about the integrity of our
voting systems."

Spicer indicated a potential investigation could take a closer look at
states including California and New York -- states Hillary Clinton
handily won -- to root out potential fraud.

The White House did not immediately respond to an email requesting
comment on voter suppression fears.

Now, Democrats are launching an investigation in a bid to prove Trump
wrong. On Wednesday, a group of House Democrats sent a letter to
officials across the country asking for specific instances of voter
fraud in the 2016 election, according to Politico.

Rick Hasen, a professor specializing in election law at the University
of California, Irvine School of Law, said investigations are nothing
new, pointing to reviews that followed the 2000, 2004 and 2008
presidential contests.

Such an investigation should be conducted by a bipartisan panel that
includes social scientists and election administrators, he said. The
members would examine individual allegations and decipher whether
potential cases of fraud had widespread impact or are due to
bureaucratic mistakes, such as failing to quickly update voter rolls
when a person dies or moves to a new state.

What is unusual, Hasen said, is having the president who won the
election assert millions voted illegally.

He gave little credence to Trump's repeated claim of widespread fraud,
saying what Trump has alleged would be a "massive conspiracy so
brilliantly done that no election officials anywhere detected it, and
yet is not good enough to swing the Electoral College."

"It's beyond straining credulity. It's absurd," said Hasen, who declined
to speculate on political motives behind Trump's tweets.

Trump's call for an investigation was met with some support from Steve
Ellis, vice president of the budget watchdog group Taxpayers for Common
Sense.

"Voters would benefit from increased confidence if there were regular
investigations into both voter fraud and suppression after elections,"
he said. "If citizens felt increased confidence about the fairness of
elections, that would be worth the limited cost."

In any case, Mark Jones, a political scientist at Rice University,
doesn't expect many Republican leaders in Texas to pay it much mind.

While instances of voter fraud or election fraud are within the realm of
possibility, most know it's not so widespread as to change election
results, Jones said.

"Even many stalwart conservatives in Texas are fully aware that
undocumented immigrants are not voting in large numbers in Texas
elections, and that this is not a major issue they need to be concerned
with," he said.

Jones doesn't see a long-term strategy in Trump's tweets.

"The most cynical way to look at it would be to say it's part of a
broader plan to bolster his efforts to restrict immigration ... and this
is simply seeding in the minds of Americans that large numbers of
undocumented immigrants are voting in our election," he said.

But the most likely scenario, he said: "He's sensitive to the fact that
he lost the popular vote."

Staff writer Brandi Grissom contributed to this report.

___ (c)2017 The Dallas Morning News Visit The Dallas Morning News at
www.dallasnews.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

  _____ 

Copyright of Dallas Morning News, The (TX) is the property of Dallas
Morning News, The (TX). The copyright in an individual article may be
maintained by the author in certain cases. Content may not be copied or
emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the copyright
holder's express written permission. However, users may print, download,
or email articles for individual use. Source: Dallas Morning News, The
(TX), Jan 26, 2017
Item: 2W63581690219

  _____ 


Record:
