 
        SMU law professors ask Senate to block Trump's pick for attorney
general as hearing nears By: Chiquillo, Julieta. Dallas Morning News,
The (TX). 01/05/2017.   


Jan. 05--Five professors at Southern Methodist University's law school
have joined more than 1,300 legal academics across the country in urging
the Senate to reject Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions for attorney general.

President-elect Donald Trump nominated Sessions in November for the post
that would make him the chief enforcer of the nation's laws. He was the
first senator to endorse Trump during the presidential campaign.

Like other Trump nominations, this one was controversial. Critics of the
longtime senator resurrected memories of his unsuccessful bid for a
federal judgeship in 1986, when former colleagues testified that
Sessions had made racist comments. Among them was a joke about members
of the Ku Klux Klan, who Sessions said "were OK until I learned they
smoked pot." He was also said to have called the NAACP and the American
Civil Liberties Union "un-American," though Sessions denied it.

Sessions has fought back accusations of racism. But the law professors'
complaints about him extend far beyond the comments that came to light
30 years ago.

In a letter addressed to Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa, the Republican
chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and Sen. Dianne Feinstein of
California, the panel's lead Democrat, the legal scholars said they are
convinced Sessions won't enforce U.S. laws fairly.

SMU Dedman School of Law faculty Joanna L. Grossman, Grant Hayden,
Jeffrey D. Kahn, Natalie Nanasi and Jessica Dixon Weaver signed the
letter, along with at least 24 professors from other Texas law schools.

Here's a breakdown of the grievances recorded in their letter:

"Some of us have concerns about his misguided prosecution of three civil
rights activists for voter fraud in Alabama in 1985, and his consistent
promotion of the myth of voter-impersonation fraud."

When he was U.S. attorney in Alabama, Sessions pushed a criminal case
against three voter-registration activists who were accused of
interfering with absentee ballots. One of them was a former aide to
Martin Luther King Jr. The activists said they were helping elderly and
illiterate voters in rural areas, but Sessions explained that he was
responding to fraud complaints made by black officeholders, The
Washington Post reported.

A predominantly black jury quickly acquitted the activists. The case
haunted Sessions during his federal judgeship confirmation hearing in
1986, as critics associated the prosecution of the activists with an
attempt to suppress the black vote.

Sessions' friends have jumped to defend him. Larry D. Thompson, a former
U.S. deputy attorney general who is black, said in a letter to The New
York Times that Sessions is "a good and decent man" and "does not have a
racist bone in his body."

"Some of us have concerns about his support for building a wall along
our country's southern border."

In an interview with far-right news outlet Breitbart, Sessions called
Trump's proposed wall along the U.S.-Mexico border "essential" to fixing
the problem of illegal immigration.

The senator has long opposed pathways to citizenship for unauthorized
immigrants and Obama administration efforts to shield some of those
immigrants from deportation. He wants to promptly deport unaccompanied
children who cross the border illegally because he thinks that not doing
so encouraged them to come to the U.S. at record levels in 2014.

"He has a really draconian approach to dealing with children who are
fleeing violence in Central America," said Nanasi, an SMU professor who
specializes in humanitarian immigration law.

Sessions has also resisted the flow of Syrian refugees into the United
States, linking them to future terrorism. More than one tenth of Syria's
population has been wounded or killed since a civil war began in 2011,
according to one report.

"Some of us have concerns about his robust support for regressive drug
policies that have fueled mass incarceration."

In the 2000s, Sessions led efforts in the Senate to reduce the disparity
between crack and cocaine sentences, which disproportionately affected
blacks.

But his stance on marijuana has drawn criticism. At a Senate hearing
last April, he said "good people don't smoke marijuana," even as half of
the states have legalized medical marijuana and eight have authorized
recreational use. The head of a drug reform advocacy group called
Sessions "a drug war dinosaur."

In 2016, Sessions also opposed a bipartisan bill that would have given
federal judges more discretion in sentencing some drug offenders. People
concerned with mass incarceration point to mandatory minimum sentences
as a source of the problem.

"Some of us have concerns about his questioning of the relationship
between fossil fuels and climate change."

Sessions is a climate change skeptic. He has opposed federal efforts to
regulate greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide, calling it "plant food"
that "doesn't harm anybody except that it might include temperature
increases."

Not that he has much faith in climate models, despite the scientific
community's consensus that man-made activity has led to global warming.
He sowed doubt about climate models while quizzing the head of the
Environmental Protection Agency during a hearing in 2015, The Washington
Post reported.

"Some of us have concerns about his repeated opposition to legislative
efforts to promote the rights of women and members of the LGBTQ
community."

In 2013, Sessions and other Republicans voted against the
reauthorization of a federal law that targets violence against women.
Three provisions became controversial: one that would award federal
grants only to domestic violence organizations that didn't discriminate
against lesbian, gay and transgender people; another that would increase
protections for Native American women in reservations; and a third that
would boost the number of visas given to unauthorized immigrants who
survive abuse, The Atlantic reported.

Sessions also criticized the Supreme Court's landmark decision to allow
same-sex marriage, though he said his home state of Alabama will
"ultimately have to follow the law."

Eight years ago, the senator unsuccessfully blocked legislation that
broadened the definition of hate crimes to include attacks based on
gender identity and sexual orientation.

Nanasi, the SMU professor, said she was troubled by Sessions' response
to the infamous Access Hollywood video from 2005 that showed Trump
bragging about kissing and groping women. Trump said he could walk up to
women and "grab them by the [expletive]."

Sessions told The Weekly Standard, a conservative magazine, that he
wouldn't characterize the behavior Trump described as sexual assault.

"I can't conceive how somebody might hear a comment like that and not
hear and recognize that that's the definition of what sexual assault
is," Nanasi said.

Sessions later said in a statement to The Washington Post that the
magazine had misrepresented his views.

"Some of us share all of these concerns."

The list of law professors signing the letter against Sessions keeps
growing. But a spokeswoman for the senator dismissed it.

"This is just business as usual for the same far-left academics who trot
our letters opposing just about any conservative or Republican who's
nominated to a key position by a Republican president," spokeswoman
Sarah Isgur Flores wrote in an email. "Jeff Sessions enjoys wide support
from law enforcement organizations to civil rights leaders to victims'
rights organizations and many others."

Sessions counts with the support of more than 100 former U.S. attorneys,
who also signed a letter. The list includes 11 Texans.

"In addition to bringing and supporting civil rights cases to fight
against voter suppression and school segregation, Senator Sessions
supported the investigation into the brutal murder of an African
American teenager, Michael Donald," the letter reads. "His efforts, in
coordination with state authorities, ensured that the perpetrator -- the
son of the Alabama Klan's leader -- received a capital sentence."

Sessions' confirmation hearings in the Senate Judiciary Committee will
begin Tuesday.

