
        White House stands by debunked Trump claim of massive vote fraud
by 'illegals' By: Gillman, Todd J. Dallas Morning News, The (TX).
01/24/2017.     

WASHINGTON -- The White House stuck by President Donald Trump's false
and widely discredited claim that he won despite massive vote fraud,
though an aide said Tuesday that there would be no investigation.

Trump lagged Democrat Hillary Clinton by nearly 3 million votes. In a
private meeting Monday with top lawmakers, he reiterated a claim that
"illegal" immigrants cost him the popular vote -- a claim for which he
has never provided evidence, and which state elections officials reject
as even a remote possibility.

At the White House, press secretary Sean Spicer was deluged with
questions. Does Trump really believe there was vote fraud on such a
colossal scale? If he does believe that more than 3 million ballots were
cast illegally, shouldn't he order an investigation?

"He believes what he believes," said Spicer, declining repeated
entreaties to provide any evidence to support the assertion. "He said 3
to 5 million people could have voted illegally," he said,

But, he said, "There is no investigation."

Spicer noted that Trump won 33 of the 50 states. "He's very pleased with
that," he said, reiterating that Trump has no worries about the
legitimacy of his victory. "He's very comfortable with his win."

Across the country, election officials scoffed.

"By repeating false and unsubstantiated voter fraud allegations as the
cause for losing the popular vote, President Trump is dangerously
attacking the legitimacy of free and fair elections and taking a
jackhammer to the foundation of our democracy," California Secretary of
State Alex Padilla said. "These are not 'alternative facts.' They are
corrosive lies without any evidence."

"We are not aware of any evidence that supports the voter fraud claims
made by President Trump, but we are open to learning more about the
Administration's concerns," the National Association of Secretaries of
State, a nonpartisan group, said in a statement issued after Spicer's
briefing Tuesday afternoon. "In the lead up to the November 2016
election, secretaries of state expressed their confidence in the
systemic integrity of our election process as a bipartisan group, and
they stand behind that statement today."

For Trump, the fact that he trailed in the popular vote still seems to
sting, even since moving into 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. His comments to
lawmakers at a private White House meeting -- relayed late Monday to
several news outlets by at least two Democrats, and confirmed by Spicer
-- echo claims he made after Election Day.

Sen. John Cornyn, the Texas Republican who serves as deputy majority
leader in the Senate, confirmed that Trump made the assertion to
Politico, which quoted him saying: "I didn't pay a lot of attention to
it. I was ready to move on to some policy issues. I didn't anticipate
that discussion."

U.S. elections aren't won by national vote. Each state is allotted a
number of electors equal to the number of seats it holds in the U.S.
House, plus two for its senators. Becoming president requires winning a
majority of electors. That's why Trump could win even though Clinton ran
up the score with voters in California and New York.

He asserted that "I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of
people who voted illegally."

In Connecticut, secretary of the state Denise Merrill chided Trump for
spreading "lies."

"To claim, without a shred of evidence, that millions of 'illegal votes'
were cast does nothing but undermine people's confidence in democracy,"
she said. "Working to undercut the public's faith in a free and fair
vote is beyond irresponsible, it is frankly un-American. What's worse, I
fear that these lies are being stated in order to lay the groundwork for
a draconian assault on voting rights."

She and Padilla are Democrats, but elections officials from both parties
have called it impossible for such widespread fraud to have gone
undetected.

Even so, at Monday's bipartisan meeting with lawmakers, the president,
boasting about his victory, claimed that massive fraud by "illegals"
cost him the popular vote.

"He said 3-5 million 'illegals' voted so that's why he lost popular
vote," The Hill quoted one Democratic aide saying after the meeting.

The Washington Post offered a similar report of Trump's session with
lawmakers, as did The New York Times. As Politico noted, "he's provided
no evidence to back up that claim, and multiple fact checks and
investigations have called the assertion false."

Trump also has insisted that his inauguration on Friday smashed
attendance records, despite clear evidence to the contrary, and he
dispatched press secretary Spicer to the briefing room Saturday
afternoon to press the case.

That drew widespread derision and led to a remarkable exchange the next
day on Meet the Press, when Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway told NBC's
Chuck Todd that Spicer was merely presenting "alternative facts."

