
        Trump, mocked for debunked claim of massive vote fraud, vows
'major investigation' By: Gillman, Todd J. Dallas Morning News, The
(TX). 01/25/2017.       


Jan. 25--WASHINGTON -- For weeks ahead of the election, when it looked
like he'd lose, Donald Trump repeatedly called the contest rigged. Even
after he won the presidency, he refused to accept the possibility that
he'd collected fewer votes -- the gap was nearly 3 million -- than his
opponent.

On Wednesday morning, the new president announced on Twitter that he
will launch a "major investigation into VOTER FRAUD" -- backing up a
debunked and widely derided claim that he's repeated privately on Monday
in a meeting with congressional leaders.

On Tuesday, White House press secretary Sean Spicer had sought to
downplay the president's persistent belief, in the absence of any
evidence, that fraud on a massive, scandalous scale had allowed Democrat
Hillary Clinton to scoop up more votes than he did.

"He believes what he believes," Spicer said, barraged by questions from
reporters.

Spicer rejected the idea that the federal government would back up the
president's concerns with an investigation -- a stance the boss reversed
this morning via Twitter.

"I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including
those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal
and....even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long
time). Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures!"
Trump tweeted.

In Texas, where Trump won by 9 percentage points, the Secretary of
State's office on Tuesday was unable to provide any data on allegations
of voter fraud from the November election. Wednesday morning, Gov. Greg
Abbott told Fox News that "voter fraud is real" and should be addressed.
But he indicated some puzzlement over the sort of wide spread fraud that
Trump has alleged.

Across the country, state elections officials and their national
association have firmly rejected as even a remote possibility that three
to five million ballots were cast illegally, as Trump has asserted.
Fraud on that scale, they say, would have been impossible to hide.

