         Democratic contractor accused of promoting violence at Trump
rallies fired over undercover videos By: Wise, Hannah. Dallas Morning
News, The (TX). 10/19/2016.     


Oct. 19--A Democratic operative has been fired and another has resigned
after undercover videos suggest they planted protesters to incite
violence at Donald Trump rallies and ways to potentially conduct voter
fraud.

The undercover videos were shot and edited by conservative activist
James O'Keefe. He published them Tuesday on his Project Veritas Action
website and YouTube.

O'Keefe has been in trouble over previous undercover videos and plead
guilty to misdemeanor charges in a 2010 case.

In the videos, Scott Foval, the national field director of Americans
United for Change, is seen and heard talking about hiring people to
attend Trump rallies and start fights. Foval's contract with the
Democratic National Committee was terminated Tuesday, CNN reports.

Bob Creamer, who hired Foval through the progressive consulting group
Democracy Partners, is also shown. Creamer, the husband of Illinois Rep.
Jan Schakowsky, resigned Tuesday from his contract with the DNC.

Creamer had been assisting the party with the Clinton campaign through
his work for Democracy Partners. CNN reports he is also the head of
Mobilize, another DNC contracting group.

"I am unwilling to become a distraction to the important task of
electing Hilary Clinton and defeating Donald Trump in the upcoming
election," Creamer said in a statement. "As a result I have indicated to
the Democratic National Committee that I am stepping back from my
responsibilities working with the campaign."

"We regret the unprofessional and careless hypothetical conversations
that were captured on hidden cameras of a regional contractor for our
firm, and he is no longer working with us," Creamer said about Foval.
"While none of the schemes described in the conversations ever took
place, these conversations do not at all reflect the values of Democracy
Partners."

Creamer told CNN that Foval is a "braggart" and that his comments on the
video are "flat out wrong. We have gone to extreme measures to ensure no
violence took place at any of our [county protest] events," he said.

Creamer pointed out to CNN that his contract with the Democratic
National Committee began in June, two months after violence at a Trump
rally in Chicago.

"The practices described in the video by this temporary regional
sub-contractor do not in any way comport with our long-standing policies
on organizing events, and those statements and sentiments do not
represent the values that the Committee holds dear. We do not believe,
or have any evidence to suggest that the activities articulated in the
video actually occurred. ... James O'Keefe is a convicted criminal with
a history of doctoring video to advance his ideological agenda," Donna
Brazile, the interim chair for the DNC told CNN

in a statement.

The Clinton campaign has denied any involvement with planting protesters
or inciting violence at Trump campaign events, CNN reports.

"While Project Veritas has been known to offer misleading video out of
context, some of the language and tactics referenced in the video are
troubling even as a theory or proposal never executed," Zac Petkanas, a
spokesman for Clinton's campaign, said in a statement. "We support the
Democratic National Committee's appropriate action addressing this
matter and look forward to continue waging a campaign of ideas worthy of
our democratic process."

The video also accuses the DNC of busing in voters from other states to
participate in voter fraud. The DNC denies these allegations, saying
that the discussion on the video was taken out of context and was
hypothetical.

The videos add fuel to Donald Trump's claims that the election is
"rigged" against him. President Barack Obama and House Republicans have
said Trump should stop making such claims.

Instances of voter fraud in the United States are incredibly rare. At a
congressional hearing last month, Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson, D-Dallas,
dismissed the possibility of a manipulated election.

Comments like Trump's seem "intended to erode public confidence in our
election system," Johnson said. "Those conspiratory allegations, like
many others that have been floated in the public sphere this election
cycle, are not supported by actual facts, and they threaten the election
process we have relied upon for more than two centuries."

Election technology experts say that it would require "a conspiracy of
literally hundreds of thousands" to manipulate the unofficial results
that are reported on election night.

In 2010, O'Keefe plead guilty to misdemeanor charges and was fined for
posing as a repairman in order to access the office of former Sen. Mary
Landrieu of Louisiana. In 2013, O'Keefe paid a $100,000 settlement in a
suit filed by a former ACORN member after O'Keefe posed as a pimp to
investigate the group.

CNN notes that Creamer was also previously convicted of bank fraud.

