         Texan McCaul gets Cabinet interview as Trump camp stands by
baseless illegal voting claim By: Gillman, Todd J. Dallas Morning News,
The (TX). 11/28/2016.   


Nov. 28--WASHINGTON -- Aides to President-elect Donald Trump provided no
evidence Monday to back up his baseless allegation that he would have
collected more votes than Hillary Clinton if "millions" of people hadn't
voted illegally.

"I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted
illegally," Trump asserted Sunday afternoon during a Twitter storm
lashing out at a recount effort in Wisconsin led by the Green Party.

In the run-up to Election Day, Trump repeatedly asserted the contest was
"rigged," a claim he quickly dropped once he won the presidency by a
convincing margin in the Electoral College tally.

News organizations quickly labeled Sunday's assertion baseless, though
it wasn't until Monday morning that Trump aides had the chance to point
to states where they said wide-scale fraud took place. Instead, they
emphasized Trump's complaint that the recount, which Clinton's campaign
supports, has gotten outsize attention and is without merit.

"This election's been decided. It's a conceded election," Trump
spokesman Jason Miller told reporters on a daily briefing call.

Asked for evidence that millions of people voted illegally in the
Trump-Clinton contest, Miller pointed to what he called a "2014
Washington Post study" that indicated that more than 14 percent of
noncitizens said they were registered to vote in the 2008 and 2010
elections.

He also cited a February 2012 Pew Center on the States study that found
that about 24 million voter registrations, or 1 in 8, were no longer
valid or were significantly inaccurate; and that 2.75 million people
have registrations in more than one state. The study also showed that
voter rolls nationwide included the names of 1.8 million people who had
died.

"All these are studies and examples of where there have been examples of
both voter fraud and illegal immigrants voting," Miller said. "It's
important to discuss some of the other concerns that are out there with
regard to voting."

Trump and his aides pointed to those same sources before Election Day,
and independent fact checkers deemed his allegations of widespread fraud
groundless, saying he exaggerated or misinterpreted these studies.

"There has been no evidence produced to substantiate a claim like that,"
White House spokesman Josh Earnest said Monday afternoon.

The item that Miller called a "Washington Post study" was actually a
blog post by a pair of political scientists at Old Dominion University
whose contentions have been disputed. And the Pew report, Inaccurate,
Costly and Inefficient: Evidence That America's Voter Registration
System Needs an Upgrade, didn't allege illegal voting on a mass scale.
Rather, it argued for the need to update voter registration systems.

And in any case, Trump leveled a very specific allegation regarding the
election three weeks ago and criminal behavior on a big scale.

Asked whether Trump will order the Justice Department to investigate or
would request investigations by any federal or state authority, Miller
demurred -- but didn't contradict Trump's claim.

"It would be inappropriate for me to speculate as far as Justice
Department activity after inauguration or after swearing in [and] the
transfer of power has been completed," he said. "I do think that it's an
issue of concern -- the fact that so many have voted who were not
legally supposed to."

Miller accused the news media of paying too little attention to the Pew
study and the Washington Post blog item, as opposed to chasing the shiny
object of the Jill Stein recount effort, which he said is really just a
way for Stein and the Green Party to make money.

On Monday afternoon, Stein filed for a recount in Pennsylvania, too.

Postelection claims of widespread fraud -- all unsubstantiated -- have
been traced to tweets from Texan Gregg Phillips, which the Post's fact
checker called "a self-described conservative voter fraud specialist,
who started making claims even before data on voter history was actually
available in most jurisdictions."

Phillips has yet to release supporting evidence for the claim, which
didn't stop it from being recycled by conspiracy website Infowars and
others on the right, all without evidence.

Meanwhile, Trump's transition planning continues.

He'll meet Monday afternoon with Kathleen Hartnett White, former chair
of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, aides said. She was an
economic adviser to the campaign and a rumored contender to run the
Environmental Protection Agency. White now works for the Texas Public
Policy Foundation as director of the conservative think tank's center
for energy and the environment.

White entered Trump Tower without speaking to reporters. In Austin, Tom
"Smitty" Smith, Texas director of left-leaning Public Citizen, said that
if appointed to run the EPA, White "would be one of the biggest
unnatural environmental disasters the nation has ever experienced."

As TCEQ chair, he said, "she voted for almost every industry-supported
project, ignored the impact on public health from pollution" and curbed
citizen input on permits.

On Tuesday, Trump will meet with Austin congressman Michael McCaul,
chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a contender to
lead the Department of Homeland Security.

McCaul has been eyeing a primary challenge to Sen. Ted Cruz in 2018,
though he has openly expressed a preference for a top administration
job. At the Capitol, jockeying has already begun for McCaul's gavel.
Rep. Martha McSally, R-Ariz., told Politico last week that she'll make a
play if he moves to the Cabinet -- an overt expression of interest that
could reflect optimism the Texan will get the call from Trump Tower.

The meetings are overshadowed by intrigue over Trump's pick for
secretary of state. He meets Monday with former Gen. David Petraeus and
Tuesday, for the second time, with Mitt Romney -- the party's 2012
presidential nominee.

Kellyanne Conway, Trump's campaign manager, went to remarkable lengths
last weekend to disparage Romney, given how seriously her boss is
considering his appointment -- pointing out publicly that he'd been one
of Trump's fiercest critics during the campaign.

Choosing Romney would placate the GOP establishment and reassure allies
overseas. But it would anger many Trump backers.

"I'm all for party unity, but I'm not sure we have to pay for that with
the secretary of state position," Conway said Sunday on CNN's State of
the Union. "It's just breathtaking in scope and intensity the type of
messages I've received from all over the country ... the number of
people who feel betrayed to think that Gov. Romney would get the most
prominent Cabinet post after he went so far out of his way to hurt
Donald Trump."

Trump will also meet Tuesday with Senate Foreign Relations Committee
Chairman Bob Corker, R-Tenn.

