 
        North Texans eager to cast ballots lead to lines on first day of
early voting By: Fancher, Julie. Dallas Morning News, The (TX).
10/24/2016.     


Oct. 24--North Texas voters appeared eager to cast ballots Monday, the
first day of a two-week early voting period.

Around noon the line at Our Redeemer Lutheran Church in North Dallas, a
popular early voting site, was dozens of people long, and parking lots
were full. The church is just across the street from NorthPark Center
Mall.

Voters said that after more than a year of presidential campaigning,
they were ready to get the process over with.

Veloy Reynders said she has long known she was going to vote for
Republican Donald Trump.

"I didn't want to wait," she said after casting her vote. "I knew how I
was going to vote."

Dick Waters, 79, said everything went smoothly for him as he cast his
vote for a straight Democratic ticket for the first time ever.

He said the organization at the church helped "eliminate any chance of
voter fraud or rigged elections," referring to comments from Donald
Trump about the possibility of a "rigged" election.

"Give me a break," Waters said with a laugh.

He said he voted down the ballot because he was concerned about a
Republican-controlled Congress working with former Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton.

"Clinton will win the presidency," Waters said. "But if Democrats don't
take the Senate or the House, we may well have four years of continued
stagnation."

Shawn Lowary, 57, said he was originally a Bernie Sanders supporter but
decided to vote for Clinton because of her experience.

He said he showed up on the first day of early voting "just to get it
over with." But he was surprised how many other people turned out, too.

"I thought I could get in without much wait," he said. While most people
said the wait wasn't longer than 20 minutes, across the state there were
reports of long wait times.

Michelle Malpica-Hertsgaard, 35, and her husband Aaron, 39, were voting
early for the first time. Both voted for Donald Trump.

They said they usually vote on Election Day, but that Aaron Hertsgaard
will be travelling on Nov. 8. It didn't hurt that their experience went
smoothly.

"We wanted to get it over with," said Aaron Hertsgaard. "I had a feeling
it would be chaos [on Nov. 8]."

Dallas County has nearly 1.3 million registered voters, according to the
county election office. Voter registration is also up throughout the
state, with more than 15 million people registered to vote, the
secretary of state announced earlier this month.

State officials said they'll know Tuesday how many voters turned out in
much of Texas. In Collin County, Elections Administrator Bruce Sherbet
said there had been "a very healthy turnout" on the first day.

Sherbet said that as of 2 p.m. there had already been about 20,000
voters in the county. That's compared to a total of 13,900 in 2008 and
16,531 voters on the first day in 2012.

He cautioned that the boost may be attributed to population growth in
Collin County. There are 80,000 more registered voters in 2016 than four
years ago, he said.

"So proportionately it may not be as significant, but it's every bit as
healthy, if not a little more so than the last two presidential
elections," he said.

Sherbet said county officials have allocated more resources, locations
and personnel to handle an expected increase in turnout.

He said historically in presidential elections, the first day is always
one of the busiest, but that other busy days are typically the last two
to three days of the early voting period.

"If at all possible, if you already know how you want to vote it's
always better to vote the first week of early voting instead of waiting
until the last two or three days," Sherbet said.

In Denton County, things didn't start quite as smoothly. According to
The Denton Record-Chronicle, early Monday the electronic election
equipment set up for use only on Election day was sent out, preventing
some voters from casting their ballots.

Just before noon, Denton County Elections administrator Lannie Noble
said all early voting machines were working.

Early voting ends Nov. 4. Election Day is Nov. 8.

