 
        Trump AG pick Jeff Sessions open to ending protections for those
brought here illegally by parents By: Leslie, Katie. Dallas Morning
News, The (TX). 01/10/2017.     


WASHINGTON -- Attorney General nominee Sen. Jeff Sessions signaled
support Tuesday for overturning President Barack Obama's executive
orders protecting people who came to the U.S. illegally as children from
deportation.

Asked by Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., whether he'd advise
President-elect Donald Trump to repeal Obama's Deferred Action for
Childhood Arrivals program, which also provides renewable two-year work
permits to young immigrants, Sessions said it's an "issue that needs to
be studied."

"It would certainly be constitutional to end that order," he told the
Senate Judiciary Committee, holding the first day of confirmation
hearings. The Alabama Republican added that he doesn't believe the
Department of Justice would object to abandoning the program "because it
is very questionable, in my opinion, constitutionally."

Graham, who opened by saying he enthusiastically supports Sessions'
nomination, asked what should be done with the estimated 800,000 people
granted deportation protection under the DACA program.

"Fundamentally, we need to fix this immigration system," Sessions said,
adding that it's up to Congress to pass comprehensive immigration
legislation. Sessions also indicated support to "end illegality" for
those affected.

Illinois Sen. Dick Durbin, a Democrat, pressed Sessions on the issue,
noting the Alabama lawmaker voted against the "the only bipartisan"
immigration overhaul bill in "modern memory."

Durbin asked him what should be done with the hundreds of thousands of
people who came out of the shadows under Obama's program, saying: "What
is the humane, legal answer to that?"

Sessions emphasized that, like Obama, Trump would put a priority on
deporting criminals and terrorists -- suggesting a lower priority for
young people otherwise obeying the law.

"As you know, Senator Durbin, we're not able financially or any other
way to seek out and remove everyone in the country illegally," Sessions
said.

Sessions reiterated that it's up to lawmakers -- not the attorney
general -- to fix the immigration system and then "ask the American
people" about how to "compassionately treat" those living in the U.S.
illegally.

Durbin criticized Sessions for avoiding the problem by refusing to
address the Dreamers' fate before enactment of an immigration overhaul
that for years has eluded Congress. These people, he said, who would be
"left in a lurch, whose lives would be ruined."

Texas Sen. John Cornyn called Sessions a "decent and honorable" man
before asking about his record prosecuting voter fraud as a U.S.
attorney in Alabama.

Cornyn suggested Sessions has been unfairly maligned for "unfairly"
prosecuting black people on voter fraud allegations, noting the
complainants were also black.

After praising Sessions' opening remarks that indicated some in law
enforcement feel "abandoned" by political leaders, Cornyn asked Sessions
"if it's ever OK to assault a police officer," a question Sessions
responded with "no."

Legitimate criticism of an officer's wrongdoing has spilled over "into
an entire condemnation of a police force," and that's affected crime
rates in cities such as Baltimore, Sessions said.

Cornyn then asked Sessions whether he'd prioritize prosecuting felons
who illegally possess firearms in order to help "break the back of a
crime wave affecting so many people in our local communities like
Chicago or Baltimore and particularly minority communities."

"I can, Senator Cornyn," Sessions said. "My best judgment, colleagues,
is that properly enforced, the federal gun laws can reduce crime and
violence in our cities and communities."

Sessions said "criminals" are the most likely people to shoot somebody
"when they go about their business."

If those people aren't carrying guns because the fear penalties
associated with violating the federal law, "fewer people get killed," he
said.

Texas Sen. Ted Cruz is also on the Senate Judiciary Committee, but has
not yet questioned Sessions during his confirmation hearing.

Staff writer Todd J. Gillman contributed to this report.

