 
        Carl P. Leubsdorf: Is Trump clearing the way for the Texas voter
ID law? By: Leubsdorf, Carl P. Dallas Morning News, The (TX).
01/25/2017.     


A three-year fight to protect the voting rights of Texas minorities
seems to have become one of the first targets of Donald Trump's
presidential administration. The outcome could have far-reaching
implications, and an interim Supreme Court ruling might only provide
short-term comfort.

Within hours of Trump's inauguration, his administration requested and
received a one-month delay in Tuesday's scheduled Corpus Christi federal
court hearing on issues surrounding the constitutionality of the 2011
Texas voter ID law, which allowed voters to use only a handful of
identifications at polling places.

The request cited "the change in administrations," adding "The United
States requires additional time to brief the new leadership of the
(Justice) Department on this case and the issues to be addressed at that
hearing."

Since President Barack Obama's Justice Department led the effort against
the Texas voter ID measure, revising its stance could help the state
implement the controversial law, which a federal appeals court ruled
discriminatory.

On Monday, the Supreme Court rejected the state's appeal to review that
decision. But the court indicated it might do so later, when the
currently divided court could have a ninth, potentially decisive member.

"The issues will be better suited for review" after completion of lower
court proceedings, Chief Justice John Roberts said, suggesting Monday's
denial of a review may be a temporary victory for opponents of the Texas
law.

"Make no mistake, the fight is not over," said the Lone Star Project, a
liberal Texas group fighting the law.

The voter ID case is one of two long-pending court cases that challenge
efforts by Texas Republicans that many consider aimed at diluting the
voter strength of the state's rapidly growing Hispanic population. The
other concerns the 2011 reapportionment of congressional and legislative
seats.

Critics of the latter said it minimized the voting rights of minorities,
who tend to vote more Democratic than Republican. While a three-judge
federal court implemented an interim, fairer plan, the original case
remains undecided.

On voting rights, Obama's Justice Department refused _ using the Voting
Rights Act's provision for pre-review of such changes _ to approve the
Texas law on grounds that by limiting the number of acceptable IDs for
voters, it placed an undue burden on Hispanics and African-Americans and
could disenfranchise up to 600,000 Texans.

But when the Supreme Court ruled in June 2013 that pre-clearance was no
longer needed, Texas implemented its law, prompting litigation to block
it.

At the same time, the high court upheld another section of the Voting
Rights Act that bans measures designed to limit the voting clout of
minorities.

Last summer, Texas suffered a significant setback when a bipartisan
majority on the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled the ID law's
effect was discriminatory. It sent the case back to the Corpus Christi
district court to determine if it also violated the provision that bars
discriminatory intent. That is the subject of the hearing, now delayed
until Feb. 28.

"This development enables new leaders of the Justice Department in the
Trump Administration an option to switch positions at least on the
constitutional question, if not on the cases as a whole," veteran
Supreme Court correspondent Lyle Denniston wrote in the National
Constitutional Center's Constitution Daily.

Civil rights groups expressed deeper fears. "We are deeply concerned
that this Justice Department is preparing to abandon its commitment to
enforcement of the nation's civil rights laws," said Kristen Clarke,
president and executive director of the Lawyers Committee for Civil
Rights.

Rights groups say restrictive voter ID laws enacted in more than a dozen
states since 2011 are Republican political efforts to curb voting by
Democratic-leaning minorities. While the stated purpose of such laws is
to prevent voter fraud, supporters have been unable to show that fraud
is a problem, in Texas or elsewhere.

Texas rejects the contention of critics that such laws limit voting.
However, Texas' 43 percent turnout of its voting age population in
November was again one of the country's lowest.

The Supreme Court sanctioned voter ID laws in a 2008 decision on an
Indiana statute. However, the authors of both the appeals court decision
in the Indiana case, conservative Judge Richard Posner, and the Supreme
Court verdict, retired liberal Justice John Paul Stevens, have since
expressed doubts about their actions.

Both the Texas law, which limits valid IDs to seven items, and a strict
North Carolina law rejected by another appeals panel are more
restrictive than the Indiana law. Additional court cases are pending on
other states' statutes, meaning the court's ultimate verdict could have
a far-reaching impact.

And while the Obama Justice Department sought wherever possible to make
voting easier, signs are the Trump administration's goal may be to make
it harder.

___

ABOUT THE WRITER

Carl P. Leubsdorf is the former Washington bureau chief of the Dallas
Morning News. Readers may write to him via email at:
carl.p.leubsdorf@gmail.com.

