        Trump AG pick Jeff Sessions open to ending protections for those
brought here illegally by parents By: Leslie, Katie. Dallas Morning
News, The (TX). 01/10/2017.     


WASHINGTON -- Attorney general nominee Sen. Jeff Sessions signaled
support Tuesday for overturning President Barack Obama's executive
orders protecting people from deportation who came to the U.S. illegally
as children.

Asked by Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., whether he'd advise
President-elect Donald Trump to repeal Obama's Deferred Action for
Childhood Arrivals program, which also provides renewable two-year work
permits to young immigrants, Sessions said it's an "issue that needs to
be studied."

"It would certainly be constitutional to end that order," he told the
Senate Judiciary Committee, holding the first day of confirmation
hearings this week. The Alabama Republican added that he doesn't believe
the Justice Department would object to abandoning the program "because
it is very questionable, in my opinion, constitutionally."

While campaigning for the White House, Trump vowed to quickly repeal
Obama's executive actions on immigration. Sessions, whom Trump tapped
last November to serve as the nation's chief law enforcement officer and
attorney, is a staunch conservative and immigration hard-liner.

Graham opened by saying he enthusiastically supports Sessions'
nomination, but asked what should be done with the estimated 800,000
people granted deportation protection under the DACA program. Graham has
said that while he views the program as a case of executive over-reach,
those granted protection under the act should not lose it.

Last December, Graham and Illinois Sen. Dick Durbin, a Democrat,
introduced a bipartisan bill to extend those protections.

"Fundamentally, we need to fix this immigration system," Sessions said,
adding that it's up to Congress to pass comprehensive immigration
legislation. Sessions also indicated support to "end illegality" for
those affected.

Durbin also pressed Sessions on the issue, noting he voted against the
only bipartisan immigration overhaul bill in "modern memory." That 2013
bill would have granted a path to citizenship for millions of people
living in the country illegally. It passed the Senate but died in the
House.

Durbin, like Graham, asked Sessions what should be done with the
hundreds of thousands of people who came out of the shadows under
Obama's program, saying: "What is the humane, legal answer to that?"

Sessions emphasized that, like Obama, Trump would put a priority on
deporting criminals and terrorists -- suggesting a lower priority for
young people otherwise obeying the law.

"As you know, Senator Durbin, we're not able financially or any other
way to seek out and remove everyone in the country illegally," Sessions
said.

Sessions reiterated that it's up to lawmakers -- not the attorney
general -- to fix the immigration system and then "ask the American
people" about how to "compassionately treat" those living in the U.S.
illegally.

Durbin criticized Sessions for avoiding the problem by refusing to
address the Dreamers' fate before enactment of an immigration overhaul
that for years has eluded Congress. These people, he said, who would be
"left in a lurch, whose lives would be ruined."

Civil rights record

The Alabama lawmaker, considered among the most conservative in the
Senate, has been plagued with questions about his record on civil rights
and race-related issues in the lead-up to his confirmation hearings. He
was rejected in the mid-1980s for a federal judgeship amid accusations
that he called various civil rights organizations "un-American" and that
he made racist remarks to a subordinate.

Texas Sen. John Cornyn called Sessions a "decent and honorable" man
before asking about his record prosecuting voter fraud as a U.S.
attorney in Alabama. Cornyn suggested Sessions has been unfairly
maligned for "unfairly" prosecuting African-Americans on those
allegations because the complainants were also black.

Later, Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., suggested Sessions misrepresented his
record on civil rights cases in a questionnaire he submitted ahead of
his hearing. Franken pointed to a recent opinion piece in The Washington
Post written by three former civil rights lawyers who say Sessions
overstated his record and wasn't involved in all of the cases he listed
as having "personally handled."

"We worked in the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division, which
brought those lawsuits; we handled three of the four ourselves. We can
state categorically that Sessions had no substantive involvement in any
of them," the men wrote.

One of those attorneys, Gerald Hebert, now with the Campaign Legal
Center, also testified in Sessions' 1986 confirmation hearings.

At the time, Hebert was an attorney for the Department of Justice's
Civil Rights Division and worked with Sessions in Alabama. He testified
that Sessions had called the civil rights organizations the NAACP and
the American Civil Liberties Union "un-American" and
"communist-inspired," and said Sessions agreed with a judge who called a
white civil rights attorney a "disgrace to his race" for representing
black clients, according to The Hill.

Sessions said Tuesday the attorneys were misrepresenting his record and
that he provided office space to the Justice Department attorneys and
signed onto their complaints.

"When a lawyer signs a complaint, he's required to affirm that he
believes in that complaint and supports that complaint and supports that
legal action, which I did," Sessions said.

Texas Sen. Ted Cruz seized on this exchange when it was his turn to
question Sessions, saying it was "unfortunate to see members of this
body impugn the integrity" of another member, especially when not
"backed up by the facts."

Cruz said that Hebert, one of the authors of the opinion piece, was
forced to retract his testimony against Sessions during his 1986
confirmation hearings.

"So an individual who has testified falsely once before this committee,
his op-ed is now the basis for Senator Franken's attack on you," Cruz
said.

The Hill reports that Hebert and another attorney were forced to retract
testimony that accused Sessions of halting a voting rights case, though
Sessions was not serving as state attorney general at that time. Hebert
has reportedly said that retraction did not discount his other
testimony.

Cruz later defended Sessions against charges of racism by noting that,
as a U.S. attorney in Alabama, he led the prosecution of a Ku Klux Klan
leader for the 1981 lynching of a black teen.

But Thomas Figures, who worked as an assistant U.S. attorney under
Sessions at that time, and whose testimony is widely considered to have
derailed Sessions' confirmation proceedings 30 years ago, testified in
1986 that Sessions initially discouraged him from pursuing the case.
Figures is the same subordinate who said that Sessions made racially
insensitive remarks to him. Sessions has disputed both accounts.

Cruz, who took repeated swipes at Democrats, also questioned Sessions
about the "politicization" of the Justice Department under Obama, and
asked whether he'd pursue political agendas if confirmed.

"Any short-term political agenda gains that come from the abuse of the
lawmaking processes and requirements of the Department of Justice just
don't make sense," Sessions testified. "It will always in the long run
be more damaging than short term gain one might have."

After praising Sessions' opening remarks that indicated some in law
enforcement feel "abandoned" by political leaders, Cornyn asked Sessions
"if it's ever OK to assault a police officer," a question to which
Sessions responded with "no."

Legitimate criticism of an officer's wrongdoing has spilled over "into
an entire condemnation of a police force," and that's affected crime
rates in cities such as Baltimore, Sessions said.

Cornyn then asked Sessions whether he'd prioritize prosecuting felons
who illegally possess firearms in order to help "break the back of a
crime wave affecting so many people in our local communities like
Chicago or Baltimore and particularly minority communities."

"I can, Senator Cornyn," Sessions said. "My best judgment, colleagues,
is that properly enforced, the federal gun laws can reduce crime and
violence in our cities and communities."

Sessions said "criminals" are the most likely people to shoot somebody
"when they go about their business."

If those people aren't carrying guns because the fear penalties
associated with violating the federal law, "fewer people get killed," he
said.

Staff writer Todd J. Gillman contributed to this report.

