
        Dallas area reporting concerns of fraud, vote flipping,
confusion over voter ID law and more By: Ayala, Eva-Marie. Dallas
Morning News, The (TX). 11/09/2016.     


Nov. 09--North Texans faced a few hitches today, with sporadic reports
of confusion regarding the state's voter ID law, concerns about possible
vote flipping and an opening delay at one polling place after an
election judge was found dead.

Still, the day was relatively smooth for the majority of the Dallas
area.

Voting hours were extended at Grand Prairie's Warmack Library because
polls didn't open until about 8:30 a.m. The election judge who was to
oversee that location, Gary Cox, was found dead at his home. Police said
Cox died of natural causes. An alternate was called to oversee the
polling location.

Then late Tuesday, Dallas County election officials began investigating
reports of possible voter fraud in West Dallas. At least 15 elderly
voters were turned away because mail-in ballots had been turned in for
them already.

In Denton County, voters became upset after systems in more than five
polling locations had technical issues, according to advocacy group the
Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law.

The committee had about 200 volunteers across Texas -- largely in the
Houston and Dallas areas -- monitoring polls. Maria Peralta, a senior
national coordinator for the committee, said of the 2,600 calls they
received from Texas voters, most concerned equipment failures or
concerns.

She added that some in Denton were also upset about heavy police
presence around polls, which they feared could intimidate voters.

"We have been reaching out to election officials as soon as we can to
try and get these issues taken care of in real time," Peralta said.

Elections Administrator Lannie Noble told the Denton Record-Chronicle
that many ballot scanners had to be swapped out of polling places
because of failures. Paper ballots were kept in secure storage until
they could be scanned.

The Dallas Morning News partnered with ProPublica for the Electionland
project, which is monitoring voting issues across the country.

The most common concerns from the Dallas area were reports that poll
workers were insisting on photo IDs despite Texas' strict voter ID law
being struck down by a federal court.

That ruling came just three months ago, and Texas is appealing it to the
U.S. Supreme Court.

"The initial confusion was in early voting, so it's definitely tapered
off," said Alicia Pierce, spokeswoman for the Texas Secretary of State's
office. "We've been reminding the counties about making sure they have
the correct posters up and that their staff is using the appropriate
language regarding IDs."

Local election administrators have said they've had to explain the
process to a few election workers and voters, but overall have not seen
any widespread issues.

Pierce noted that the Secretary of State's office, which does not have
enforcement abilities, has sent counties frequent reminders regarding
the law.

The U.S. Department of Justice had poll watchers in Texas -- including
in Dallas County -- to monitor for problems. Pierce said that as of
midday Tuesday, the state hadn't had any direct reports from the Justice
Department regarding issues on Election Day.

Grand Prairie voter Tiffanie Tucker said she was filing a complaint with
the Secretary of State's office after driving across Dallas County most
of the day only to be told she couldn't vote. She said she mailed her
registration in about two months ago, but election officials told her
they had no record of it.

Tucker said left her polling location in Grand Prairie to investigate
her options at the elections office in Dallas, where she was told she
could have done a provisional ballot at her original polling place.

She went back to Grand Prairie, where she said she argued with an
election worker before finally getting to cast a provisional ballot. But
when she called the elections office again to get information for her
complaint, she was told her provisional ballot wouldn't count anyway
because her registration wasn't received by the deadline.

"I spent all day trying to vote only to have my vote not count," she
said. "It was my right."

One Plano voter was worried about possible vote flipping and reported
that his machine didn't record his straight-party ticket vote correctly,
according to a report sent to Electionland.

Collin County elections administrator Bruce Sherbet said that machine
was taken out of service at the Armstrong Middle School polling location
so workers could examine it.

"There was no evidence that anything was wrong with it. It seemed to be
the same thing we saw in early voting," said Sherbet, referring to
similar complaints seen across Texas last month. Most of those issues,
however, were largely unfounded or due to user errors.

Other Plano voters had no technical issues voting, just internal
conflicts.

Sharee Williams prayed for guidance before getting out of her car to
vote at Catherine Fowler Middle School.

"I'm feeling a lot of weight today. I want to walk away with a clear
conscience," said Williams, who was still not at peace with her vote for
Trump. "It's hard to see Hillary and not see the shadow of her husband.
I'm not saying they haven't done good, but it's really hard for me to
move forward with that."

Prasad Pondicherry, an immigrant from India who became a citizen about a
decade ago, said he opted for Clinton.

"The devil you know is better than the devil you don't know,"
Pondicherry said. "We've seen Hillary go through these investigations. I
know her flaws."

Wait times varied greatly depending on location and time of day.

In Arlington, a handful of voters quickly made their way in and out of
St. Stephen United Methodist Church to vote during lunchtime without any
problems.

Gary Washburn -- who voted a straight Republican ticket and against the
public funding for the Texas Rangers stadium -- said despite the ease of
voting, he was uneasy about the election overall.

"I'm not sure I picked winners. I think the stadium is going to go
through no matter what," Washburn said. "Even if it fails, they'll bring
it back again. And Trump? Well, I'm not sure he's even a real
Republican. But we'll see. I don't see how he'll win though."

Meanwhile Ebony Bryant, 32, voted in favor of the stadium but said the
real reason she came to the polls was to vote for Hillary Clinton.

"I hadn't even begun to process that I was able to vote for a woman who
could be the first female president," Bryant said. "Donald Trump was so
horrendous that I just wanted to make sure I came out to vote against
him."

In Oak Cliff, Chelsea Ridley walked to Kidd Springs Recreation Center
with her 2-week-old son, Bear, sleeping in his stroller. After seeing
busy early voting, she worried about a long wait with a newborn but
found no one else in line.

"Being a new mom and having a child now, the future means something
completely different to me now," said Ridley, who declined to say how
she voted. "It's not just about me, but about what the future of this
country means for my family."

Staff writer Sanya Mansoor contributed to this report.

