         Supreme Court declines Texas appeal in voter ID case, but the
fight isn't over yet By: Rudner, Jordan. Dallas Morning News, The (TX).
01/23/2017.     


Jan. 23--WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court declined Texas officials'
appeal in the ongoing battle over the state's voter identification law
Monday, meaning an earlier decision by the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals, which found the law violates the Voting Rights Act, will stand.

Chief Justice John Roberts, however, took the unusual step of offering
an explanation for why the Supreme Court chose not to hear the appeal.
He hinted that he might be willing to reconsider the issue.

Roberts noted that a lower court is still attempting to determine how
Texas must adapt its voter ID law to compensate for discriminatory
effects the judges found the law had on black and Hispanic citizens. In
the next few months, the lower court will specify the next steps Texas
officials must take.

"The issues will be better suited for [the court to review] at that
time," Roberts wrote.

The Republican-backed voter ID law, which first went into effect in
2013, has been making its way through a long court battle ever since.
Most Texas Republicans, including Gov. Greg Abbott, say that the law is
necessary to prevent voter fraud and that it's not overly burdensome for
a voter without ID to get one.

Last summer, the judges on the 5th Circuit noted that out of more than
20 million votes cast in Texas in the last decade, there had only been
four instances of possible fraud of the type the voter ID law was
written to address.

The law's opponents argue that the main goal of requiring voter ID is to
prevent black and Hispanic voters from casting a ballot, because they
are significantly less likely to have one of the seven accepted forms of
government-issued ID.

As an temporary solution, during the November election, most voters were
still required to show one of the approved forms of ID -- but voters
without a government-provided photo ID were still able to cast ballots,
as long as they signed a form and provided some proof of identification,
such as a utility bill or a paycheck.

Although the Supreme Court declined to take up the case, Attorney
General Ken Paxton said he remains optimistic that the justices will
eventually conclude that the voter ID law is not discriminatory.

"Chief Justice Roberts made it very clear that the case will be an even
stronger posture for Supreme Court review after further proceedings in
the lower courts," Paxton said in a written statement, adding that he
would "continue to fight for the law in district court, the 5th Circuit,
and, if necessary, the Supreme Court again."

Support for the law remains strong in the state Legislature, where
Republicans may take up the voter ID issue again in the coming months.

But several Democrats, including Lone Star Project director Matt Angle,
said they weren't concerned by Roberts' statement, noting that the voter
ID law has been found discriminatory at every stage of federal court
review so far.

The Supreme Court's decision to reject the appeal was "no surprise,"
Angle said in a statement. "The Abbott/Paxton voter ID law is an assault
on basic voting rights and freedoms."

