
        Alleged voter fraud in Tarrant County triggers investigation,
the largest in Texas history, governor says By: Ballor, Claire. Dallas
Morning News, The (TX). 10/16/2016.     


Oct. 16--A state investigation is under way over allegations of voter
fraud in Tarrant County, according to a report from the Fort Worth
Star-Telegram.

Concerns have arisen over mail-in ballots, which many believe open the
door for "vote harvesting," or the process of illegally filling out and
returning the ballots of other valid voters without their consent.

Mail-in ballots are designed for eligible voters who are unable to leave
their homes, are in jail or out of the country, and many argue that such
balloting is critical for those who would be unable to vote otherwise.

But the mail-in balloting process allows those voters to cast their
votes from home without verification of identity, which some say opens
the door for abuse.

Some believe the investigation is likely politically motivated and might
scare some out of voting via mail-in ballots, while others say it is
addressing an issue that has existed for years.

"The Republicans have been looking for a blockbuster case to demonstrate
that voter fraud isn't just a series of small mistakes," Brandon
Rottinghaus, a political science professor at the University of Houston,
told the Star-Telegram. "If some of these allegations turn out to be
true, they may finally have their white whale."

Rotinghaus said whether or not there is lawbreaking going on, "the issue
of voting is polarized and revelations this close to an election are
bound to have an effect on Democratic Party and affiliated groups'
efforts to get out the vote. Voters may be hesitant to sign up for or
vote through a mail-in ballot, let alone give it to someone else. This
may reduce turnout in some heavily Democratic areas that utilize this
process."

The Tarrant County Elections Administration declined to comment on the
investigation.

The attorney general's office also declined to comment or "confirm or
deny investigations," but when asked for the complaints that prompted
the investigation, workers declined to release them due to concern that
doing so might hamper a criminal investigation.

Local officials said workers with Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton's
office have been interviewing potential witnesses and gathering
paperwork in Tarrant County.

Gov. Greg Abbott shared his thoughts on the investigation via Twitter
saying, "we will crush illegal voting."

