 
        Dallas-area voters look for 'sweet spot' of short lines before 7
p.m. deadline to cast early ballots By: Ayala, Eva-Marie. Dallas Morning
News, The (TX). 11/04/2016.     


Nov. 04--With record turnout expected, some voters were hoping to avoid
the long lines -- and even possible terrorist threats -- surrounding
Election Day by voting early.

Today is the last day for early voting and in West Dallas, at least,
lines were much shorter than many polling places had been during this
busy election season. Polls close at 7 p.m.

"I think I hit the sweet spot," Dallas resident Kyle Redman, 31, said,
after spending about five minutes to vote at El Centro College West
Campus. "A lot of my friends went last week and there were long lines. I
wanted to avoid the disaster of Tuesday, which will be long lines
again."

Redman said he also was being cautious as he heard reports that the FBI
was investigating possible threats of attacks in Texas, New York and
Virginia.

Election officials predict this year will break voting records as the
highly divisive presidential race has brought numerous first-time
voters. Many have been concerned about the impact of possible voter
fraud, intimidation from poll watchers and the impact of possible
misunderstandings after Texas' voter ID law was recently struck down.

Some early voters previously claimed voting machines switched votes, but
officials have said those allegations are likely false or due to user
error. Overall only a handful of isolated problems have been reported.

Bruce Sherbet, elections administrator for Collin County, said he's
received one report of campaign signs being damaged at one polling
location. Another time he had to explain to an election worker how to
offer a provisional ballot if qualifications are at issue after a voter
complained he wasn't offered one.

But overall the additional staffing in place for this election has
helped the season run smoothly, Sherbet said. The fast-growing county
added an additional 80,000 voters since the last presidential election.

"And we'll have a record turnout on top of that," Sherbet said, noting
that at 46 percent of registered voters had showed up to the polls by
Thursday evening. "Right now, we're leading all the big 15 counties in
the having the highest turnout of registered voters."

Still the day wasn't running smooth for everyone. Back in Dallas, a
disappointed Margaux Herbet was being turned away at El Centro West
Campus after being told she registered to vote too late.

"We just moved here from Louisiana, and I thought I made the deadline in
early October," said the 23-year-old. "It's probably my fault. I'm not
sure. I really wanted to vote, and it's too late to go back to Louisiana
to do it. There has to be an easier way to register when you move."

She said she planned to go to the county elections office to investigate
her options.

In Tarrant County, officials were bracing for just about anything crazy
to happen but overall, it's been relatively quiet, elections
administrator Frank Phillips said.

"I wish I had an interesting yarn to tell you, but I really don't,"
Phillips said. "We were expecting it this time, but stranger things
seemed to happen back in '08."

About 458,000 -- or 42 percent of Tarrant County's registered voters --
had voted early in person by Friday morning, shattering the county's
previous early voting record that set in eight years ago.

He noted turnout was particularly high in Arlington, where the city is
also voting on public funding for a new Texas Rangers stadium. That city
alone had nearly 78,000 ballots cast by Friday.

In all, Phillips expected the county's total in-person and absentee
ballots to make up about 60 percent registered voters. But that won't
mean shorter lines on Election Day, he warned.

"I still think Tuesday will be busy," he said. "Forty percent of about a
million people is still a lot to have coming through."

Having problems?

Having trouble voting because of computer glitches? Mishaps at the
polls? Long lines? Let us know.

We'll be tracking voting problems, and you can help by signing up now.

Text DALLASNEWS to 69866. We'll check in to find out how it went and how
long you waited in line.

