        Trump says 'If I lose ...' and some supporters mull revolt By:
Gillman, Todd J. Dallas Morning News, The (TX). 10/21/2016.     


Oct. 21--FLETCHER, N.C. -- Donald Trump still isn't prepared to concede
defeat if that's how the election turns out, but he's clearly aware
that's a possibility.

"What a waste of time if we don't pull this off," he told a rally in
North Carolina Friday afternoon. "It matters to me if we win or lose.
I'll have over $100 million of my own money in this campaign. If I lose,
if I lose ..."

He never quite completed the thought, pivoting to the Hillary Clinton
"juggernaut" and the massive spending the Democrats have unleashed
against him.

Trump's headwinds are stiff with 18 days to go, amid problems largely of
his own making. A dozen or so women have come forward to accuse him of
groping after he insisted it was only "locker room talk" when he boasted
in 2005 that as a celebrity, he regularly gets away with kissing women
uninvited and grabbing their genitals.

His refusal in the final debate Wednesday night to vow to accept the
outcome of the election even if he loses was a sharp departure from
centuries of American tradition, reinforcing concerns that he's driven
by authoritarian impulses and lacks respect for rule of law and
democracy.

In Fletcher, near Asheville, 3,100 people were on hand for the rally in
a fairgrounds expo building. Many in the crowd said they are concerned
Trump's claims of a "rigged" election could be true, even hinting that
revolt and resistance to the results is on their minds. Few were fazed
by any of the allegations against him.

"Number 1, it didn't happen," said Melisa Smith, 45, of the groping
claims. If he really did any of that, she added, "It happened 10 years
ago. Why didn't they report it 10 years ago?"

She's also fine with Trump's refusal to commit to conceding the race to
Clinton. If he's declared the loser, she said: "I hope that Americans
will rise and do what is necessary to take our country back. To get it
back for the people, by the people."

Her husband, Jason Smith, 44, interrupted. He's a retired corrections
officer. They own a gift shop in Saluda, N.C.

"By means of peaceful protest," he said.

He nodded his head, signaling her to go along with his more acceptable
way of putting it.

She locked eyes and shook her head, rejecting the coaching. "Yeah --
no," she said.

Still, she's confident it won't come to that. As long as voter fraud
isn't rampant, she said, she expects Trump to win, "absolutely" --
though she said she's seen reports of postal workers bragging about
trashing pro-Trump absentee ballots, as well as other evidence of
problems.

President Barack Obama has called Trump's refusal to accept the will of
the voters dangerous, as have other Democrats. A chorus of leading
Republicans has condemned the stance, among them Sen. Mike Lee of Utah,
who called it "frightening beyond my ability to describe. ... It
delegitimizes the entire process in a way that is really dangerous."

"This election is not rigged, and it's irresponsible to say that it is,"
said another tea party Republican, South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley.

At Trump's North Carolina rally, though, it wasn't hard to find
supporters concerned that he's right.

"There could be some uprising," said Jennifer Pangle, 41, a teacher who
lives about 90 minutes away in Kingsport, Tenn. "He can't control the
individual choices."

But her husband, Donny Pangle, downplayed the danger and the uproar over
Trump's stance.

"I don't understand what the big deal is about asking Trump would he
concede or not," said Pangle, a 38-year-old associate pastor. He likened
it to a football game. "If the scoreboard says you lost, you lost. ...
If the results are what they are, everybody will get behind the
president and move forward."

Like plenty of others in the crowd, he's dubious about polls showing
Clinton with a growing lead.

"I think the polls are bent toward her," he said. "Numbers can be
manipulated, but we the people can't."

George Humphries, 66, a retired history teacher from Barnardsville,
called it "irrelevant" if Trump refuses to concede.

"Whether he accepts it or not, if he loses, he loses," he said. But he,
too, doubts the polls are picking up the extent of Trump's support.
"Even Democrats are disenchanted, but they're not going to say they're
going to vote for Trump. They'll just quietly go and do it."

Byron Watkins, 48, a Hendersonville resident who owns a heating and
air-conditioning company, said he doesn't expect Trump to follow through
on the implied threat to dispute the will of the electorate.

"He's just keeping people excited," he said, predicting that once
results come in on election night, "He'll do whatever he does
gracefully."

And if he doesn't? "It could be a big mess. It depends on how close it
is."

When it comes to Trump's "locker room talk," his supporters remain as
dug in and defiant as he is.

Watkins described himself as a Christian with a wife and children, and
he said he's sure if someone found a recording of office conversation,
it wouldn't be suitable for a family dinner. The general manager at his
company, Rob Pinner, 48, agreed.

"It's unfortunate that we got sidetracked with dirt," he said.

Waynesville resident Suzie Pressley, 47, is an advocate for victims of
sexual abuse who said her professional experience has taught her to
believe the accuser unless proof shows otherwise. But when it comes to
the alleged groping by Trump, "That was 15 years ago," she said.

She's also forgiving of his stubbornness on potential defeat. "The man
is arrogant, no doubt. He's used to winning," she said.

Could there be trouble after the election if he loses? "The whole
election has been socially disruptive," she said.

Robin Hayes, North Carolina GOP chairman and a former congressman, said
the state's Republicans are "totally, firmly and completely behind our
man Donald Trump."

Trump took the stage 40 minutes behind schedule, to a sea of pink "Women
for Trump" signs the campaign had printed. Volunteers were handing them
out at the entrance. The nominee deemed it a show of strong support from
women, though polls show him lagging with that demographic.

"Look at all those 'Women for Trump' signs. I love that," he said. "I
look at all our rallies, I think we're going to do very well with women.
Honestly, I believe we're going to win."

He attacked President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama for
campaigning against him and for "Crooked Hillary."

From western North Carolina, Trump was heading to Pennsylvania for two
more rallies Friday.

"We've got three of these today ... on occasion, I have four," he said,
boasting that he's working hard so that "win, lose or draw, I will be
happy with myself. I don't want to think back, if only I did one more
rally, I would have won North Carolina by 500 votes instead of losing it
by 200 votes.

"I am so invigorated. ... It's all about making America great again," he
said.

He accused Clinton of cheating in the debates by obtaining questions
ahead of time, "But it doesn't matter, because we won. They steal
everything; we won."

