
        Obama hits Trump for 'whining' about election, unprecedented
flattery of Putin By: Gillman, Todd J. Dallas Morning News, The (TX).
10/18/2016.     


Oct. 18--WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama blasted Donald Trump on
Tuesday for his overt admiration of Russian President Vladimir Putin and
for "whining" that the election is rigged -- a claim he called unfounded
and "irresponsible."

Painting Trump as petulant and a sore loser even before votes are
counted or even cast, Obama went out of his way at a Rose Garden news
conference to shoot down Trump's assertions about the integrity of the
elections.

"That is both irresponsible and, by the way, doesn't really show the
kind of leadership and toughness you want out of a president. He's
started whining before the game's even over," Obama said.

Trump's aides and running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, have sought to
tamp down the uproar by insisting that Trump means the election is
rigged in that the media is biased against him. But Trump has drowned
out that spin by reiterating assertions about impending, massive fraud
by which the election will be stolen from him and his supporters.

Obama, flanked by Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi on a sparkling
fall day, noted that in the U.S. system, elections are conducted and
votes counted at the local and state level. Many of the most hotly
contested states, including Florida, are run by Republican governors,
making Trump's assertions especially hard to fathom.

"I have never seen in my lifetime or in modern political history any
presidential candidate trying to discredit the elections and the
election process before votes have even taken place," Obama said. "It's
unprecedented. It happens to be based on no facts. Every expert
regardless of political party, regardless of ideology ... who has ever
examined these issues ... will tell you that instances of significant
voter fraud are not to be found."

Trump's approach to possible defeat, he added, shows that he doesn't
"have what it takes to be in this job. Because there are a lot of times
when things don't go our way, or my way. That's OK. You fight through
it. ... I'd invite Mr. Trump to stop whining and go make his case" to
voters.

And if Trump does win -- which Obama is working hard to fend off -- he
vowed to escort him to the Capitol for inauguration and a peaceful
transition of power. He expects Hillary Clinton "to offer a gracious
concession speech and offer to work with him. ... That's what Americans
do. That's why America is already great."

Obama also hit Trump hard for his oft-voiced admiration of Putin.

"Mr. Trump's continued flattery of Mr. Putin and the degree to which he
appears to model many of policies and his approach on Mr. Putin is
unprecedented in American politics," the president said.

Russia, he said, is powerful and important, with a military second only
to that of the U.S., and as such, it must be dealt with carefully, given
the authoritarian strain under Putin.

"Anybody who occupies this office should feel the same way. ... We can't
go around talking about human rights or freedom of the press or
democracy or freedom of religion or nondiscrimination or basic laws of
war or the sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries no matter
how small and then extol the virtues of someone who violates those
principles," Obama said.

He also called it "out of step" with traditional U.S. norms for many
Republicans, even the most hawkish, to echo Trump on Russia, given that
for much of his administration they were "constantly haranguing us for
even talking to the Russians."

