 
        Rep. Eric Johnson to Dallas County Democratic Party: 'An
educated black man is your worst nightmare' By: Jeffers, Gromer Jr.
Dallas Morning News, The (TX). 01/27/2017.     



Jan. 27--Rep. Eric Johnson Thursday night sent a pointed message to the
Dallas County Democratic Party: "An educated black man is your worst
nightmare."

The Dallas Democrat temporarily changed his Facebook profile picture to
one that features him in a suit and tie standing in front of some
menacing men carrying automatic weapons. It's a spoof of the captured
Mexican drug lord Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman.

Above the Photoshopped picture Johnson states: "Dallas County Democratic
Party 'Leadership', I am not the one. El Chapo may be in custody, but
I'm as free as they come."

Underneath he continues: "El Blacko: An Educated Black Man. Your Worst
Nightmare."

Johnson's conflict with local Democratic party leadership flared up this
week via social media, when he criticized Dallas County Democrats for
using former state Rep. Terri Hodge to train activists how to operate
mail-in ballot campaigns.

Though mail-in ballot campaigns are legal and used by Republicans and
Democrats, the process in Dallas County has sparked legislative reform
to guard against fraud.

In 2010 Hodge was convicted of tax evasion and sentenced to one year in
prison. Since her release, she has continued to work in local politics
and had a short stint as a community liaison for U.S. Rep. Eddie Bernice
Johnson. Her conviction had nothing to do with her expertise with
mail-in ballot campaigns.

Johnson was challenging Hodge for the District 100 seat in Dallas County
when she was convicted and resigned. He won the contest and is serving
his fourth term in the Legislature.

One of the few North Texas leaders under the age of 50, Johnson has long
stressed injecting fresh ideas and new leadership into the local
political mix. His posts on social media showcase his disgust with the
local Democratic party's decision to use Hodge for training seminars.

"This is why we need new blood in the Dallas County Democratic Party,"
he wrote. "This kind of mess has got to stop. What are the folks at
party headquarters thinking? We've got a president who's trying to
convince everyone we've got a voter fraud problem in this country and
our local party makes a completely tone deaf decision like this? I have
no words."

Dallas County Democratic Party officials issued a carefully worded
statement when asked about Johnson's comments and Hodge.

"The Democratic Party is open to anyone willing to work for fairness and
justice, including those with differing opinions," the statement said.
"We look forward to working as a team to elect more Democrats in 2018."

Also on Facebook, Johnson warned that he was tougher than he looks.

"What my political enemies fail to understand is that I was built for
war," he wrote. "Don't let the three Ivy League degrees fool you.
#WestDallas #OakCliff"

