
        Sen. John Cornyn on Trump's rigged-election claims: Wait and see
By: Leslie, Katie. Dallas Morning News, The (TX). 10/14/2016.   


Oct. 14--SAN ANTONIO -- As Donald Trump sinks in the polls and continues
to warn his voters that the presidential election is "rigged" against
him, Sen. John Cornyn said Friday that he, too, has concerns about the
electoral system.

"Cybersecurity has obviously been a serious issue and has been for a
long time. I do share some concerns about the integrity of the electoral
system," he said, adding that he doesn't see any "grand conspiracy by
state actors to try to disrupt our election system."

But the Senate's No. 2 Republican leader stopped short of agreeing with
the GOP nominee's suggestion that a loss in November could be the result
of voter fraud.

"There are going to have to be some facts identified to support that
conclusion, and we'll just have to wait and see what happens," Cornyn
said.

As recently as this week, Trump told his supporters that the election
could be "stolen" from him, calling on them to "watch other communities"
for fraud at the polls.

The New York Times reports that Trump -- whose campaign has been in free
fall in the wake of shaky debate performances, a video in which he
describes forcing himself on women and reports from women saying he
inappropriately touched them -- has repeatedly singled out cities with
large black populations as he warns the election could be "rigged."

Republicans have passed stringent voter identification laws in recent
years to combat what they say is the potential for fraud at the polls --
an issue Democrats have denounced as a form of discrimination.

But now, an increasing number of Republicans say Trump is going too far
with his rigged-election rhetoric.

Some Republicans have reportedly joined the chorus of Democrats
criticizing Trump for promoting conspiracy theories about the election,
calling on him to substantiate his claims or produce evidence of voter
fraud.

Cornyn sidestepped criticizing Trump in his appearance Friday with Texas
Land Commissioner George P. Bush and Republican Congressman Will Hurd,
R-San Antonio, in which they unveiled a new grant program to help
military members transition to law enforcement roles.

But the senator couldn't escape questions about the election, which he
described as among the nastiest in his political lifetime.

Cornyn expressed optimism that Republicans will retain control of the
House and Senate, despite predictions from some Democrats that Trump has
proved toxic enough to help them retake the majority.

"I don't think anybody confuses the Republican nominee with a
traditional Republican," Cornyn said of Trump, noting that some polls
place Republican Senate candidates ahead of the nominee in their
respective states.

Cornyn was among those last week to slam a 2005 video in which Trump
bragged about kissing and groping women unlikely to resist because of
his celebrity status. But, like many Republicans, Cornyn hasn't
withdrawn his support for the presidential contender.

On Friday, Cornyn said he hasn't because he's respecting the will of the
voters.

"My position has not changed," he said. "I support the nominee of my
party, who was not my first choice and obviously was not my second
choice, but he is the nominee of my party, and that's more a matter of
respect for the voters who cast their ballot for him that I feel an
obligation to support the nominee."

Cornyn reiterated that he's concerned about potential appointments to
the Supreme Court and the effects of another Democratic presidency on
regulatory agencies. But regardless of what happens Nov. 8, he said,
"The sun is still going to come up on Nov. 9."

