 
        McCaul disputes Trump on Russian hacks and 'rigged' election
claim By: Gillman, Todd J. Dallas Morning News, The (TX). 10/20/2016.   


Oct. 20--WASHINGTON -- House Republicans' point man on homeland
security, Texas congressman Michael McCaul, has tried to set Donald
Trump straight on the issue of Russian hacking. He also rejects Trump's
warning that the election is "rigged," though neither glaring
discrepancy between his own judgment and Trump's has made him change his
mind about backing the GOP nominee.

Trump has for weeks rejected declarations by James Clapper, the director
of national intelligence, Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and
others who say Russia was behind the theft of emails from the Democratic
National Committee in an apparent effort to sway the U.S. election.

"I have personally briefed him on that and told him that in my opinion
... this was in fact a nation-state attack by Russia," McCaul said.

That was on Monday in New York, at a session aimed at preparing Trump
for Wednesday's third and final presidential debate in Las Vegas.

The Austin Republican chairs the House Homeland Security Committee and
serves on Trump's national security advisory council. In addition to
their differing views on the source of the hacks, McCaul distanced
himself from Trump's unfounded warnings that the election is "rigged"
and ripe for widespread fraud that will mean the presidency was "stolen"
if Hillary Clinton wins.

"The tactic here is to try to stop any potential voter fraud from
occurring," McCaul said from Dallas before boarding a flight to Las
Vegas for the debate. "It's energizing his supporters to show up and
ensure there is no voter fraud."

Asked if he would accept Clinton as the winner, he said: "Of course."

That isn't what Trump has been saying -- a stance that drew mockery
Tuesday from the White House. At a Rose Garden news conference,
President Barack Obama urged Trump to "stop whining and go make his
case" to voters. He chastised Trump for an undemocratic impulse to
resist potential defeat in a fair election.

Johnson has offered the Homeland Security Department's technical
assistance to state and local elections officials. Some 33 states have
accepted federal help to ensure their systems are tamper-proof.

McCaul, echoing assurances from election officials in Texas and other
states, emphasized that voting machines generally are not connected to
the internet and that "if you're not connected, you can't have this
cyber interference."

As for Russia, Trump's admiration for strongman Vladimir Putin and
refusal to accept expert assessments that pin the hacks on Russia have
opened him to criticism that he's not clear-eyed enough to handle
Russia.

"I don't think anybody knows it was Russia that broke into the DNC. I
mean, it could be Russia, but it could also be China," Trump insisted at
the first debate three weeks ago. "It could also be lots of other
people. It also could be somebody sitting on their bed that weighs 400
pounds, OK?"

That wasn't the first or last time he's rejected the official assessment
pointing blame at Russia, leaving top national security experts
dismayed.

"It defies logic," retired Gen. Michael Hayden, former director of the
CIA and the National Security Agency, said last week. "He seems to
ignore their advice. ... Why would you assume this would change when he
is in office?"

Since then, McCaul has emphasized to Trump that Russia was behind the
hacks and that Clapper and other top officials are sure of that.

"I respect Hayden a great deal," McCaul said. "He's aware of that. He's
still in some respects uncertain with respect to all of the attacks,"
but "he hasn't had a classified briefing."

Both Trump and Clinton began receiving classified intelligence briefings
after formally being nominated by their parties, in keeping with decades
of U.S. tradition aimed at a smooth handoff of power. It's unknown how
much Trump has been briefed directly about the hacks.

McCaul said he remains confident that Trump is the better choice for
president.

"Everything that Hillary has touched has gone bad," he said, pointing to
relations with Russia and Iran, the rise of ISIS and other elements of
foreign policy.

And he insisted that Trump, despite laudatory comments about Putin's
strength and shrugging off intimidation of political opponents,
understands that Putin represents a threat, given Russia's aggression
against Ukraine and other neighbors and its renewed nuclear program.

"He just thinks that he would be by far the better person to be in the
room with Putin and be able to stare him down and negotiate with him. He
respects him as a strong national leader, which he is. That should not
be translated into, 'We're friends,' " McCaul said.

