AROUND DELAWARE -Sussex marijuana dispensary vendor chosen 
October 25, 2016 | Delaware State News (Dover, DE) Section: News 
661 Words Page: 5 
OpenURL 
Link 
DOVER  The Delaware Division of Public Health announced Monday it has awarded the contract for a 
Sussex County medical marijuana facility to First State Compassion Center. First State was rated the highest of the applicants by the Medical Marijuana RFP Selection Committee and will be preparing a retail facility, which will being offering product in early 2017. 
First State currently operates a dispensary in New Castle County. Federal attorney chosen to prevent voter fraud WILMINGTON  U.S. Attorney for the District of Delaware Charles M. Oberly III announced last week 
an assistant U.S. attorney will oversee efforts to prevent voter fraud in Delaware next month. 
Patricia C. Hannigan will work with the U.S. Department of Justice to prevent voter fraud, intimidation and discrimination. Every citizen must be able to vote without interference or discrimination and to have that vote counted 
without it being stolen because of fraud, Mr. Oberly said in a statement. The Department of Justice will act promptly and aggressively to protect the integrity of the election process. Complaints of voter fraud can be made to Ms. Hannigan at 573-6117. 
Water group to meet DOVER  The Source Water Protection Citizens and Technical Advisory Committee of the Source Water Assessment and Protection Program will meet from 9 to noon next week. 
The group will convene in Conference Room 220 of the Kent County Administrative Offices at 555 South Bay Road in Dover on Nov. 2. 
On the agenda is an update on source water projects in the state and presentations on source water. For more information, visit http://delawaresourcewater.org, or contact Program Manager Anita Beckel at 739-9945. 
Airport road to close in November REHOBOTH BEACH  Airport Road between Miller Road and Old Landing Road will be closed Nov. 1=18 for drainage improvements. 
The road will shut down at 7 a.m. and will re-open at 3 p.m., pending weather. 
Drivers can take Old Landing Road, go north to SR 1 and then south onto Miller Road or use Miller Road, continue north onto SR 1 and go south to Old Landing Road. 
State to remove debris at bottom of Delaware Bay 
DOVER  The Delaware Coastal Programs has been awarded $90,000 in funding from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to remove debris from the bottom of heavily-fished areas of the Delaware Bay. 
The work will identify the location of ghost pots and provide scientifidata on how debris impacts marine life. 
Work will be done during the commercial crabbing off-season from December through February and will rely on partnerships with commercial crabbers. 
It is the first large-scale marine debris removal effort conducted on the Delaware side of the Delaware Bay. This project will run in tandem with a similar crab pot removal project being conducted by the New Jersey Audubon in the New Jersey waters. 
Chicken company Allen Harim to build new hatchery 
SEAFORD  Chicken producer Allen Harim announced Monday it will spend $22 million to build a new hatchery in Dagsboro. 
The facility will be 70,000 square feet and produce 2.5 million eggs per week. It will be built off Nine Foot Road. 
Our No Antibiotic Ever policy requires us to provide the healthiest start possible to each and every bird, and this new facility  the most technologically-advanced hatchery on Delmarva  will deliver that, President and CEO Joe Moran said in a statement. It will be also be more energy efficient and environmentally friendly. 
After completion, Allen Harim will close two older hatcheries, one in Seaford and one in Dagsboro, and employees at both locations will be offered positions at the new hatchery or other company facilities. 
Family Court judge sworn in 
DOVER James G. McGiffin Jr. was sworn in for his first term as a Family Court judge Monday. 
He replaces William J. Walls Jr., who retired earlier this year. 
Judge McGiffin served as a Family Court commissioner from 1994 to 1998 and most recently worked as legal counsel to the majority caucus in the state Senate. 
He was a Dover city councilman from 2006 to 2011. 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Delaware State News 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'AROUND DELAWARE -Sussex marijuana dispensary vendor chosen', Delaware State News (online), 25 Oct 2016 5 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/documentview?p=AWNB&docref=news/1603E668A0591508 
