RUBIO AGAINST CAPITALIZING ON LEAKS 
October 20, 2016 | Tampa Bay Times (FL) 
Section: NATIONAL 
409 Words 
Page: 10 
OpenURL 
Link 
Hours after releasing a statement saying he would not comment on hacked emails released by WikiLeaks -and suggesting his fellow Republicans shouldn't, either -U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio elaborated on his reasoning during a stop in Tampa on Wednesday. "Our intelligence officials, who are not partisan people, have told us that this is the work of a foreign intelligence agency, and we cannot be a country where foreign intelligence agencies can interfere or influence our political process," Rubio, a member of the Senate Intelligence and Foreign Relations committees, said during a visit to the J.C. Newman Cigar Co. "What I would say to my Republican colleagues, some of whom may be disappointed by the position I've taken is, today it's them," -meaning Democrats -"tomorrow it could be us." 
*** 
Democratic activists brag about disrupting 
Two operatives who were working in conjunction with the Democratic National Committee to help elect Hillary Clinton are no longer working in that role after an undercover video showed them plotting to incite violence at Donald Trump's rallies. The video (which contains profane language) was the work of James O'Keefe's Project Veritas Action, a right-wing organization that sends researchers to spy on the inner workings of Democratic campaigns. The footage showed Robert Creamer of Democracy Partners and Scott Foval, formerly of People for the American Way and Americans United for Change, appearing to talk about plans to plant people outside of Trump rallies and instigate fights. "It doesn't matter what the friggin' legal and ethics people say, we need to win this," Foval said in one clip of the video. 
*** 
Carter: Rigging concerns 'baseless' 
Jimmy Carter says concerns the U.S. elections will be rigged are "baseless." The former president released a statement on Wednesday along with the Carter Center, the human rights organization he founded after leaving the White House. The Carter Center has monitored more than 100 elections around the world, but never in the United States. Carter said allegations of election-rigging and voter fraud in the 
U.S. serve "only to undermine confidence in our democratic processes and inflame tensions." 
*** 
Millions across U.S. have already voted 
No matter how persuasive Trump and Clinton were at Wednesday night's debate, it's already too late for either to win over millions of voters. Advance voting by mail or in person is now under way in more than 30 states. At least 2.1 million voters have already cast ballots. More than 45 million people are expected to vote before Election Day. 
Copyright (c) 2016 Tampa Bay Times 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'RUBIOAGAINSTCAPITALIZING ONLEAKS', Tampa Bay Times (online), 20 Oct 2016 10 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16023E596A77F6A8 
