Trump calls for term limits on Congress
Newspaper October 18, 2016 | Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The: Web Edition Articles (GA)
Author: Jamie Dupree Section: News 458 Words
Trump calls for term limits on Congress
A day after vowing to limit the revolving door that sees top federal officials and lawmakers in Congress move into lobbying jobs in Washington, D.C., Donald Trump said today he would press the country to amend the Constitution and institute term limits for members of the U.S. House and Senate.
"The time for Congressional term limits has finally arrived," Trump said, arguing it would help end government corruption.
"Decades of failure in Washington and decades of special interest dealing must and will come to an end," Trump said, as he vowed to totally change the status quo in the nation's capital.
"We're going to drain the swamp in Washington, D.C.," Trump said at his first Tuesday campaign stop in Colorado Springs, Colorado.
Along with hitting Hillary Clinton over her emails while Secretary of State, Trump also once more lit into the news media, accusing the press of being part of what he says is an effort to rig the election against him.
Trump: "I think the media is trying to discourage our people from going out to vote"
— Jamie Dupree (@jamiedupree) October 18, 2016
"I think the media is trying to discourage our people from going out to vote," Trump said, as he accused the press of not reporting on a host of stories that might hurt Democrats and Hillary Clinton.
He cited charges in recent days that national Democrats were paying people to show up and cause trouble at Trump rallies.
"The protesters are paid a lot of money by the DNC," Trump said. "It was barely covered by the media, but it's all over the internet," as Trump supporters demanded more attention on a new video from the group Project Veritas:
"Can you imagine? That's a big story," Trump said. "Hardly covered by the media," as the crowd at his Tuesday rally booed.
Meanwhile, as Trump again made the case that he might lose the election because of voter fraud led by the Democratic Party, President Obama rebuked Trump from the White House, telling Trump to 'stop whining.'
Not all Republicans have been on board with Trump's charge that the media is working with Democrats and elections officials to make sure Trump loses.
"This election is not being rigged," said Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL), who pushed back at a debate against Trump's talk.
Trump though says Republicans who make that argument are simply wrong.
"We have even Republicans – 'oh that's such a terrible thing to say,' – well, take a look at Philadelphia at what's been going on, take a look at Chicago, take a look at St. Louis," as Trump argues the GOP has been systematically undermined by voter fraud in those cities, though there is little evidence to back up his charge.
Copyright (c) 2016, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
