White House not interested in probing Trump claim of illegal voting in 2016 election
Newspaper January 24, 2017 | Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The: Web Edition Articles (GA)
Author: Jamie Dupree Section: News 318 Words
White House not interested in probing Trump claim of illegal voting in 2016 election
A day after President Trump again claimed that he lost the popular vote in 2016 because millions voted illegally in the United States, the White House made clear that it had no interest in undertaking an investigation of that claim, offering no evidence to back up a charge that has been repeatedly made by Mr. Trump.
"The President does believe that; he has stated that before," said White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer, who repeatedly told reporters that the Trump Administration was not planning any investigation into the President's claim.
"He believes what he believes based on the information he's provided," Spicer said, though Mr. Trump has never offered any concrete evidence to back up his charge that some three to five million people voted illegally in 2016.
WH briefing headline – President Trump believes millions voted illegally in 2016 but sees no need to investigate
— Jamie Dupree (@jamiedupree) January 24, 2017
"There is no investigation," Spicer told reporters, though he acknowledged that "anything is possible" in the months ahead.
On Capitol Hill, some prominent Republicans were not giving the President any backing on his voter fraud claim.
"I've already commented on that; I've seen no evidence of that, I've made that very, very clear," said House Speaker Paul Ryan.
"I am begging the President," Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) said, "Share with us the information you have about this or please stop saying it."
Shorter @PressSec: @POTUS believes there is widespread voter fraud, but won't commit to investigation–bc Trump won
— Jared Rizzi (@JaredRizzi) January 24, 2017
Democrats also reacted skeptically again to President Trump's claim of illegal voting, saying there has been no evidence.
Saying it over and over doesn't make it true. pic.twitter.com/cKUfIfEr34
— Alison L. Grimes (@AlisonForKY) January 24, 2017
"If the American President believes in a lie, that doesn't turn the lie into truth," said Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA).
"It's still a lie," he added.
Copyright (c) 2017, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
