Trump harps on voter fraud, "rigged" election
Newspaper October 17, 2016 | Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The: Web Edition Articles (GA)
Author: Jamie Dupree Section: News 333 Words
Trump harps on voter fraud, "rigged" election
With three weeks of campaign work left until Election Day, Donald Trump continues to charge that his candidacy for President is being undermined by large amounts of voter fraud, as he has stepped up his very public allegation that the 2016 election is rigged against him.
On Sunday, he repeatedly accused the news media of rigging the election; on Monday, he was taking aim at fellow Republicans over the issue.
Of course there is large scale voter fraud happening on and before election day. Why do Republican leaders deny what is going on? So naive!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 17, 2016
In a number of swing states, Republicans are the ones in charge of making sure the vote is fair – like in Ohio, where the Secretary of State was on television today expressing confidence in the system:
Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted on CNN re: election rigging: "We make it easy to vote and hard to cheat" @WHIORadio
— Dorey Scheimer (@DoreyScheimer) October 17, 2016
Back in August, the elections officials in charge of Florida's vote count made clear in a statement that they see no evidence that an election could be fixed against anyone.
"I think that it would be virtually impossible," said the group's counsel, as many election experts say the warnings by Trump of a rigged election – or widespread voter fraud – just aren't so.
ICYMI: a comprehensive investigation of voter impersonation finds 31 credible incidents out of 1B ballots cast https://t.co/UqKWF6TL2D
— Dr. Michael Bitzer (@BowTiePolitics) October 17, 2016
But for Trump, the charge that the election is rigged, is a common staple of his stump speech.
And it has certainly been picked up by his supporters.
Trump has also asked his backers to check out polling places on Election Day for possible fraud, citing the city of Philadelphia several times at rallies in recent weeks.
"And everybody knows what I'm talking about," Trump said last week in Pennsylvania.
Copyright (c) 2016, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
