State elections officials dispute Trump charge that millions voted illegally
Newspaper November 28, 2016 | Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The: Web Edition Articles (GA)
Author: Jamie Dupree Section: News 307 Words
State elections officials dispute Trump charge that millions voted illegally
After their states were singled out by President-Elect Donald Trump for allowing massive voter fraud, elections officials in three states pushed back against Mr. Trump's charge that millions voted illegally in the November elections, with critics calling on the next President to present some evidence to back up his charge.
"The claims of voter fraud in Virginia during the November 8 election are unfounded," said Virginia elections commissioner Edgardo Cortes, one of three states that Trump claimed had allowed illegal votes in large numbers.
In New Hampshire, there was also push back to the President-Elect, as officials noted that the Trump campaign had the option of requesting a recount in that state, but did not do so.
NH Dep SoS David Scanlan tells me there's "no evidence" of widespread voter fraud in his state like Pres-elect Trump alleged.
— Frank Thorp V (@frankthorp) November 28, 2016
Along with Virginia and New Hampshire, Trump charged that California also had allowed illegal votes – and that drew a sharp response from Secretary of State Alex Padilla.
"His unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud in California and elsewhere are absurd," Padilla said, as he rapped Trump for airing his charges on social media with no evidence to back them up.
"His reckless tweets are inappropriate and unbecoming of a President-elect," Padilla added.
Mr. Trump kept up the Twitter focus on the issue on Monday, as he tweeted out attacks on one CNN reporter, Jeff Zeleny, who reported that Trump had not presented evidence to back up the claim of millions of illegal votes.
"@FiIibuster: @jeffzeleny Pathetic – you have no sufficient evidence that Donald Trump did not suffer from voter fraud, shame! Bad reporter.
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 29, 2016
CNN now live reporting on Trump's Zeleny-bashing tweets. This has become too ridiculous. I give up.
— Liz Mair (@LizMair) November 29, 2016
Copyright (c) 2016, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
