7 things to know now: Midwest recount; Cyber Monday; self-lacing shoes; Castro funeral
Newspaper November 28, 2016 | Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The: Web Edition Articles (GA)
Author: Debbie Lord Section: News 573 Words
7 things to know now: Midwest recount; Cyber Monday; self-lacing shoes; Castro funeral
Here's a roundup of news trending across the nation and world today.
What to know now:
1. Recounting votes: President-elect Donald Trump joined in on the conversation about voter fraud in the 2016 presidential election Sunday when he tweeted about the call by Green Party candidate Jill Stein for a recount of votes in three Midwestern states. Trump also took a swipe at Hillary Clinton's campaign on the news it had joined Stein's efforts in the recount. "I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally," Trump tweeted on Sunday. Later he tweeted that there had been "serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and California."
2. Concentration camp routine: The wife of the spokesman for Russian President Vladimir Putin has caused a stir in Russia by performing an ice skating routine while dressed as a Nazi concentration camp prisoner. Tatiana Navka, a former Olympic ice dancer, and her partner both wore striped uniforms with a yellow six-pointed star on the chest. The routine, they said, was based on the movie "Life is Beautiful," about a man in a concentration camp who pretends for the sake of his son that their internment is a game.
3. Castro funeral: The island nation of Cuba will prepare for the funeral of Fidel Castro this week. Castro, who led the revolution to overthrow the Cuban government in 1959, ruled the country for nearly 50 years before turning over power to his brother, Raul in 2008. Castro's funeral will be held Sunday.
4. Self-lacing technology: If tying your shoes has become a chore and you are one of a small number of Nike app users, the future has arrived for you today. Nike is releasing the self-lacing shoe Monday for purchase by some select customers. Inspired by the shoes seen in the movie "Back to the Future II," the pair will lace and unlace themselves by pressing a button, according to Nike. The price for the footwear of the future? A cool $720 when they hit select stores for the rest of us on Wednesday.
5. Hall facing charges: According to some media reports, actor Anthony Michael Hall has been arrested on felony battery charges stemming from a fight with a neighbor that happened in September. The man is said to have suffered a broken wrist and a back injury after Hall allegedly threw him to the ground.
And one more
While self-lacing shoes may not be on most Christmas lists, computers, TVs, tech gifts and toys sure are as millions take to their electronic devices to shop on Cyber Monday. On what is traditionally the busiest online shopping day of the year, retailers are looking to expand their holiday profits with discounts on everything from Apple products to laptops to gaming devices. According to Adobe Digital Insights, retailers hope consumers will add to the $3.34 billion spent shopping online on Black Friday.
In case you missed it
Here are a few things you may not have known about iPhones.
Copyright (c) 2016, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
