Report: White nationalists to pass out alcohol, marijuana on Election Day
Newspaper November 3, 2016 | Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The: Web Edition Articles (GA)
Author: Theresa Seiger Section: News 518 Words
Report: White nationalists to pass out alcohol, marijuana on Election Day
PHILADELPHIA
Neo-Nazi leader Andrew Anglin and other white nationalists plan to set up hidden cameras at Philadelphia polling places and give out liquor and marijuana "in the city's 'ghetto,'" on Election Day, according to a report from Politico.
> Read more trending stories
The efforts appear to be in response to calls from Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump to watch polling stations in fear of voter fraud ahead of Tuesday's election.
Anglin, editor of the neo-Nazi Daily Stormer website, told Politico in an email that he is working with alt-right website TheRightStuff.Biz to send "an army of Alt-Right nationalists to watch the polls."
A representative for TheRightStuff.Biz, who did not provide his or her name, told Politico that the site is organizing poll watchers "in urban areas" and cameras in Philadelphia polling places to watch for instances of voter fraud.
> Related: Donald Trump rejects support of KKK-linked newspaper
"If we see people voting in multiple locations the footage will be submitted to the (Federal Election Commission) as well as put out on social media to undermine the legitimacy of (Hillary) Clinton should she steal the election," the representative said.
The group is also organizing teams to go "in to the ghettos in Philly with 40s and weed to give out to the local residents, which we think will lead to more of them staying home," the representative told Politico, referring to 40-ounce bottles of malt liquor and marijuana.
Whether the purported plans will come together remains to be seen. Mark Potok, of the Southern Poverty Law Center, told Politico that Anglin and others who are part of the alt-right movement are "serial exaggerators."
> Related: Donald Trump inconsistent on David Duke, KKK
"If, on the morning of Election Day, it turns out that we have white supremacists standing around looking threatening at polling places, I think it would arouse anger," he said. "People would vote just to prove they're not being intimidated by these radical racists."
Still, the report prompted U.S. Sen. Bob Casey, D-Pennsylvania, to call on the Justice Department to enforce election monitoring rules.
"These plans to monitor the polls are little more than thinly veiled attempts to suppress and delegitimize the votes of minority citizens," he wrote on Twitter. "We have come too far to allow a group of white nationalists to intimidate minority voters in Philadelphia or anywhere throughout the nation."
> Related: Trump blames earpiece for not disavowing former KKK leader
Philadelphia District Attorney Seth Williams on Wednesday characterized claims of abundant voter fraud in the city as little more than an "urban myth," The Philadelphia Inquirer reported.
"While this election may seem different -- I can't recall another time when one of the nominees for president regularly and falsely states that our voting system is rigged -- it's not different," Williams said. "We have had difficult campaigns before."
Trump has repeatedly warned of rigged elections over the course of his run for the White House. Despite his assertions, there is no evidence to support a claim of widespread voter fraud in the U.S.
Copyright (c) 2016, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
