Offering no evidence, Trump claims "millions" voted illegally in November
Newspaper November 27, 2016 | Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The: Web Edition Articles (GA)
Author: Jamie Dupree Section: News 361 Words
Offering no evidence, Trump claims "millions" voted illegally in November
President-Elect Donald Trump claimed that Hillary Clinton won the popular vote in the race for President only because "millions of people" voted illegally in the November elections, though Mr. Trump, in a flurry of tweets on Sunday, offered no real evidence to back up his claim of massive voter fraud.
In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 27, 2016
The latest raw vote totals show Clinton with a lead of more than 2.2 million votes over Trump, who flashed some aggravation with that outcome.
"It would have been much easier for me to win the so-called popular vote than the Electoral College in that I would only campaign in 3 or 4 states instead of the 15 states that I visited," Trump wrote on Twitter.
"I would have won even more easily and convincingly," the President-Elect declared.
As for his charge that millions voted illegally, Mr. Trump claimed the news media was ignoring evidence of massive voter fraud that he says denied him a popular vote win.
Serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and California – so why isn't the media reporting on this? Serious bias – big problem!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 28, 2016
It wasn't clear what exactly Mr. Trump was referring to in Virginia, New Hampshire and California, in terms of voter fraud.
The internet has been littered with claims by Trump supporters of voter fraud – but no concrete evidence has emerged.
Trump won 49/50 states by 2M+ votes. Hillary wins popular vote after adding California, the holy land of illegal voter fraud.
— Matt Dougan (@Americooligan) November 18, 2016
California is a favorite target of Trump supporters on the internet, with endless claims that illegal immigrants cast a huge number of votes – but there has been no specifics made public to back up such charges.
Trump's charge drew condemnation from one interesting source – as People Magazine derided his tweets on voter fraud as "bizarre."
President-elect Donald Trump falsely claims in bizarre tweets that "millions" voted illegally for Clinton: https://t.co/MtJjIWtdSi
— People Magazine (@people) November 27, 2016
Copyright (c) 2016, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
