Election auditors recommend improving technology, equipment 
January 27, 2017 | Quad-City Times, The (IA) 
Section: A 
611 Words 
Page: 8 
OpenURL 
Link 
A roundup of legislative and Capitol news items of interest for Thursday: 
ELECTION INTEGRITY: County auditors told lawmakers that voter fraud is rare in the state, but Secretary of State Paul Pate's plan to require Iowans to present a voter ID at polls and to cast an absentee ballot would make the process more secure. However, it was not their top priority when they met with the House State Government Committee Thursday. Funding to address technology and equipment challenges, including improving the statewide voter registration system rated high among the auditors, including Travis Weipert of Johnson County and Ken Kline of Cerro Gordo County. The auditors also recommended changes to allow them to combine precincts to reduce equipment needs and election costs, and to use voter centers where people could vote regardless of their residence. "In North Liberty," Weipert said, "everyone gets in their car in the morning and leaves for the day and comes back in evening" so a centralized voter center would be efficient. "I wouldn't do that in Iowa City because everyone, I'm sure you know, bikes or walks." 
GAS PRICES DIP SLIGHTLY: Iowa motorists got a little relief at their service-station pumps this past week, according to the latest fuel price survey data issued by the state Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship. Retail gasoline prices in Iowa fell two cent a gallon, closing at an average of $2.34. 
U.S. average retail gasoline prices dropped 4 cents, closing at $2.30 per gallon. Iowa's average retail price was 54 cents per gallon higher than one year ago. Retail diesel fuel prices in Iowa held steady at last week's price with a statewide average of $2.48 a gallon. One year ago diesel prices averaged $1.92 a gallon in Iowa. On the heating fuels side, propane prices around Iowa held steady at last week's report, with a statewide average of $1.21 per gallon. Home heating prices dropped a penny from last week, ending with a statewide average of $2.06, while natural gas prices fell six cents to $3.25/MMbtu. 
WATER QUALITY UPDATE: Iowa Agriculture Secretary Bill Northey says $3.8 million has been made available for statewide cost share for water quality practices and for 45 demonstration projects that are operating across Iowa to help implement and demonstrate water quality practices. Northey says about 1,800 farmers committed $3.8 million in cost share funds to install nutrient reduction practices. The practices that were eligible for this funding are cover crops, no-till or strip till, or using a nitrification inhibitor when applying fall fertilizer. Participants include 980 farmers using a practice for the first time and more than 830 past users who are trying cover crops again and are receiving a reduced-rate of cost share. Farmers using cost-share funding are providing an estimated $6 million in their own funding to adopt these water quality practices. A total of 45 demonstration projects are currently located across the state to help implement and demonstrate water quality practices. This includes 16 targeted watershed projects, seven projects focused on expanding the use and innovative delivery of water quality practices and 22 urban water quality demonstration projects. More information about the initiative can be found at CleanWaterIowa.org. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY: "I think that it is improper for the government of the state of Iowa to be requiring people, to force you to put things into their bodies or their children's bodies. That needs to be something that is part of our liberties, part of our constitutional rights. Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness certainly includes what we're going to stick in our bodies as far as vaccinations and things like that." -Sen. Dennis Guth, R-Klemme, commenting Thursday on House File 7, a bill that would create a personal conviction exemption for vaccinations. 
Copyright 2017, Lee Enterprises, Incorporated d/b/a The Quad-City Times, All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Election auditors recommend improving technology, equipment', Quad-City Times, The (online), 27 Jan 2017 8 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/162338F72E56DAA0 
