Pate:Voter ID, technology upgrades willincrease confidence in elections 
January 8, 2017 | Quad-City Times, The (IA) 
Author: James Q. Lynch 
Section: C 
785 Words 
Page: 5 
OpenURL 
Link 
CEDAR RAPIDS -In the "timing is everything" category, Secretary of State Paul Pate thinks 2017 is the ideal time for Iowa lawmakers to address election integrity by requiring voter IDs and other measures to increase voter confidence in voter registration and absentee voting. 
His proposed $1 million upgrade to the state's election system to guard against fraud comes on the heels of a campaign cycle marked by concerns about fraud and Russian hackers. 
Pate, who also served as Secretary of State in the 1990s, said there always are people concerned about electoral integrity, "but this election cycle it was unusually high." 
"We were bombarded with questions about the Russian thing and every kind of hacking," Pate said Friday afternoon, emphasizing that whatever Russian interference there was, "they didn't hack a single election system anywhere." 
Any suggestion of fraud plants seeds of doubt in the minds of some voters who then decide their vote won't count. So Pate is trying to prevent any loss of confidence in Iowa's voting system by proposing that voter identification -including existing Iowa driver's licenses, passports and military IDs -be required and signatures be verified at polling sites. Eligible voters, out-of-state students and others who lack approved identification would be issued free ID cards including an ID number that would be required for all absentee ballot requests. 
Iowa county auditors share Pate's pride in the electoral process, but are not enthusiastic about his proposal. 
Checking ID cards at the polls doesn't guarantee the elimination of voter fraud, said Linn County Auditor Joel Miller, and it adds steps to the process. 
"It's not a slam dunk," he said. "You've taken something that already has a lot of moving parts and variables and added more moving parts and variables, and cost." 
Pate's proposal would require Linn County to have four to five computers at each of its 86 precinct. That would mean buying close to 300 additional computers at a cost of more than several hundred dollars each, Miller said. 
Johnson County keeps a minimum of three computers at each of its 57 precincts, Auditor Travis Weipert 
said. In addition to the cost of equipment upgrades, he said Pate's plan also may require the county to spend more money training poll workers to use new equipment and better spot fake IDs. 
Pate wants the state to pick up some of those costs. His proposal calls for the state to provide poll books to the counties without them and security updates for the counties using poll books now. The state would provide poll worker training, too. 
There will be costs to counties associated with his proposal, Pate said, but they need to upgrade and update their technology. Much of the "new" voting equipment was purchased more than 10 years ago following the 2000 election that exposed flaws in the election system. 
Legislative Democrats initial reactions have not been positive. 
House Minority Leader Mark Smith, D-Marshalltown, called voter ID laws "a solution in search of a problem." Sen. Jeff Danielson, D-Waterloo, charged it would disenfranchise older Iowans, younger Iowans and people of color. 
Pate acknowledged that similar changes in other states have prompted legal challenges. The results are a mixed bag. For example, North Carolina's far-reaching election restrictions were rejected by a federal appeals court that found state legislators had intentionally made it harder for minorities to vote. 
The same court upheld Virginia's voter ID law, which unlike Pate's proposal would require a photo ID, to be constitutional because it is more flexible than other states' measures and was not designed to discriminate. 
That gives him confidence his proposal could withstand a court challenge. 
"We are not profiling, we're not putting any voters out in any respect at all," he said. "It's so passive. I just don't see where they can challenge it." 
The biggest challenge may be winning legislative approval for a $1 million capital expenditure at a time lawmakers face cutting $100 million from the state budget. With that in mind, Pate is calling for the upgrades to be in place for the 2020 presidential election. However, finding $1 million in the $7 billion general fund budget is not too much to ask to ensure Iowans that their votes are secure and they will count, he said. 
(Gazette reporters Mitchell Schmidt and Erin Jordan contributed to this report.) 
Few fraud cases found in Iowa 
While Iowa law enforcement agencies have investigated hundreds of potential cases of election misconduct, only 23 people were convicted in the last five years, according to state data. 
Of the 23 convictions from 2012 through 2016, 15 were for felony charges of election misconduct and eight were for misdemeanors, the Judicial Branch's Iowa Court Information System by the Criminal & Juvenile Justice division of the Iowa Department of Civil Rights. 
--Erin Jordan 
Copyright 2017, Lee Enterprises, Incorporated d/b/a The Quad-City Times, All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
James Q. Lynch, Des Moines Bureau, 'Pate: Voter ID, technology upgrades will increase confidence in elections', Quad-City Times, The (online), 8 Jan 2017 5 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/161D4B5AA98DD910 
