Budget, Exelon on new agenda 
Author: Dan Petrella 
Section: A 
894 Words 
Page: 1 
OpenURL 
Link 
SPRINGFIELD -With a long and bitter election season behind them, lawmakers will return to the Capitol on Tuesday for their fall veto session with a lengthy list of issues to address and only six days scheduled to do so. 
The new Legislature that was elected last week won't be seated until January, so House Democrats retain their 71-member, veto-proof majority, every member of which would be needed to override any of Republican Gov. Bruce Rauner's dozens of vetoes. An override in the Senate, where Democrats hold 39 seats, requires 36 votes. 
Three-fifth majorities in both the House and Senate also are needed to pass any new legislation before the end of the year if it's to become effective before June 1. That sets the bar high at a time when the Democratic-controlled General Assembly and the Rauner administration have failed for nearly two years to produce a full state budget. 
Lawmakers are scheduled to be in session Tuesday through Thursday and Nov. 29 through Dec. 1. 
Here's a look at what to expect -and what not to expect -during the fall veto session. 
Nuclear plants 
Energy giant Exelon Corp. wants action during the veto session on legislation that would create subsidies for nuclear power. The company says subsidies are warranted because, like subsidized wind and solar power, nuclear doesn't emit carbon pollution. 
Without the subsidies, which would come from ratepayers, the company says it will have to shut down its financially struggling Quad-City and Clinton nuclear plants, costing 1,500 jobs and millions in tax revenue for the two communities. 
"Absent action during the upcoming veto session, both facilities will close," CEO Chris Crane told investors on an Oct. 26 earnings call. 
The company has sent similar signals before, and they haven't spurred the General Assembly to action. 
After a bill didn't pass this spring, Exelon moved forward with steps necessary to shutter the plants, with Clinton slated to close June 1 and the Quad-City plant to follow a year later. 
Sen. Chapin Rose, R-Mahomet, who represents the Clinton plant and is one of the bill's sponsors, said a new version is forthcoming that has "changed mightily since last May," including the addition of measures to prevent the closure of Dynegy-owned coal-fired power plants in southern Illinois. 
The massive bill, which also includes rate structure changes for customers of Exelon subsidiary Commonwealth Edison and new energy-efficiency programs, has been met with opposition from consumer groups, the renewable energy industry and industrial customers, who would face large rate increases. 
The budget 
Lawmakers and the governor pressed paused on their long-running budget battle in June by passing a six-month spending plan for most state operations. 
The stopgap is set to expire Dec. 31, and it's unclear whether they'll be able to put together a plan for the next six months during the veto session. 
Rauner has called for a Monday meeting with the four top legislative leaders, although House Speaker Michael Madigan, D-Chicago, had yet to publicly accept the invitation as of Friday afternoon. A series of such meetings preceded the passage of the stopgap. 
It remains to be seen how willing Madigan will be to negotiate with Rauner after the governor contributed nearly $32.6 million of his own money to GOP campaign efforts that demonized Madigan and resulted in his party losing six seats in the next Legislature. 
Rauner continues to insist on passing portions of his pro-business, union-weakening "turnaround agenda" before signing off on tax increases to balance the budget. Democrats, meanwhile, continue to argue that Rauner's policy proposals shouldn't be tied to the budget. 
Passing a deal would be easier after Jan. 1, when only a simple majority would be needed, but it also would mean renewed uncertainty for public universities and social service providers that were starved of funding during the state's last fiscal year. 
Term limits, redistricting 
In the lead up to Election Day, Rauner made a push for legislators to put referendums on term limits for elected officials and the creation of an independent legislative redistricting commission before voters. Rauner has said he wants lawmakers to take up the issues during the veto session. 
Making those changes would require amending the Illinois Constitution and putting the questions to voters would require three-fifths majorities in both chambers. 
With many Democrats opposed to both ideas and the next election two years away, there's little chance the issue will be addressed during the veto session. 
Voter registration 
Sen. Andy Manar, D-Bunker Hill, said he plans to move for an override of Rauner's veto of a bill to create automatic voter registration. 
Manar's bill would automatically register eligible Illinois residents to vote when they obtain or renew driver's licenses or conduct business with other state agencies. Currently, Illinoisans can to choose to register when getting or renewing their licenses. 
The legislation passed by with strong bipartisan support, but Rauner vetoed it, telling lawmakers that while he supports the concept, the bill would "would inadvertently open the door to voter fraud and run afoul of federal election law." 
Manar and other supporters say those claims are unfounded, arguing that the measure would expand access to the ballot box and make the registration process less costly and more efficient. 
An override would be "a great signal to Illinois voters and the rest of the state that it is possible to come together and do right by the state," said Andy Kang, legal director for Asian Americans Advancing Justice-Chicago, which supported the bill. 
Copyright 2016, Lee Enterprises, Incorporated d/b/a The Quad-City Times, All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Dan Petrella, Springfield Bureau, 'Budget, Exelon on new agenda', Quad-City Times, The (online), 13 Nov 2016 1 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160A2CC4E080C148 
