Kankakee County investigates vote buying allegations 
October 4, 2016 | Chicago Sun-Times (IL) Author: Tina Sfondeles 
Section: News 
660 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
The Kankakee prosecutor on Tuesday announced an unprecedented investigation into allegations of individuals from Chicago offering gifts to residents in exchange for votes  only to have his office itself accused of harassing and intimidating voters. 
The Kankakee County States Attorneys Office said it opened the voter fraud investigation in response to allegations that gifts were given to voters in exchange for a vote for Democratic state Rep. Kate Cloonen, presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, and others. 
The states attorneys office on Tuesday called the investigation an unprecedented action, saying it will also focus on the authenticity of vote-by-mail requests. 
Kankakee County States Attorney Jamie Boyd, a Republican, said politics is in no way involved in this. 
But union leaders and a Democratic former state representative turned the tables on the states attorneys office, saying instead that, voters have been harassed and intimidated by local officials, including the states attorneys office, sheriffs office and county clerk. 
Boyd said he would have no comment on any counter charges against him. 
Boyd, who in March lost a Republican primary bid for a seat on the bench, said the vote buying wasnt necessarily exclusive to Democratic votes: Those are the ones that we were able to confirm. Were hoping to find out what people are being told. 
Boyd said he couldnt comment on what the gifts were or how many voters were targeted, pending the open investigation. 
Boyd also said the mail ballot investigation was initiated because of some red flags that led his office to want to make sure those ballots were valid. He said he hopes voters who havent received their mail ballots will come forward. 
And Boyd said hes keeping politics out of this investigation. 
I have worked tirelessly and I believe successfully to keep politics out of the operation of this particular office, and Im not going to let it come into it now just because it happens to involve an election, Boyd said. Its part of my job and because I dont let politics into this office, its in no way involved in this. 
Cloonen is the incumbent in a contested  and very expensive  Illinois House race against Republican 
Lindsay Parkhurst. Cloonen won her seat by just 122 votes in the 2014 election. 
Parkhurst called the alleged voter fraud deplorable. 
These reports of voter fraud in Kankakee are incredibly disturbing. Fair and honest elections are the bedrock of our democracy. It is truly deplorable when people try to corrupt our system in this manner, Parkhurst said in a statement. I call on Kate Cloonen to denounce these actions and confirm to the public that no one affiliated with her campaign had any knowledge or involvement with these alleged crimes." 
But Steve Brown, spokesman for Illinois House Speaker Michael Madigan, also chairman of the Illinois Democratic Party, called the investigation further voter suppression from [Gov. Bruce] Rauners Republican party. 
Theyre doing everything they can  everything that you see in the courts, theyre everywhere, Brown said, adding theyve been harassing people for weeks. 
GOP leaders dismissed that argument. 
Only a crooked Chicago political boss would cry foul when a states attorney takes action against voter fraud, state Republican Party spokesman Steven Yaffe said. 
Responding to Boyd, Garr Ciaccio, president of AFSCME Local 29, Mike Smith, business manager of Laborers Local 751, and former State Rep. Lisa Dugan released a lengthy statement about the allegations, saying they noticed illegal and unethical conduct by the Kankakee County States Attorney, Kankakee county clerk and the Kankakee county sheriffs offices. They said they notified the Illinois Attorney Generals office, the Illinois State Board of Elections and the Dept. of Justice regarding the actions of those local officials. 
We know many legally registered voters have been turned away from voting over the last few days. Since early voting for the 2016 general election began just a few short days ago, there have been numerous reports and eyewitness accounts of harassment and intimidation by local government officials of residents trying to participate in the democratic process of voting, the group said in a statement. 
Copyright (c) 2016 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Tina Sfondeles, 'Kankakee County investigates vote buying allegations', Chicago Sun-Times (online), 4 Oct 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15FD2CC89D9B6FF0 
