Trump announces major voter fraud investigation 
January 25, 2017 | Chicago Sun-Times (IL) 
Author: John O'Neill 
Section: News 
752 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
WASHINGTON  President Donald Trump tweeted early Wednesday that he is ordering a major investigation into voter fraud, revisiting unsubstantiated claims hes made repeatedly about a rigged voting system. 
The investigation, he said, will look at those registered to vote in more than one state, those who are illegal and  even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time). 
Depending on results, Trump tweeted, we will strengthen up voting procedures! 
Trump has been fixated on his loss of the popular vote in the election and a persistent frustration that the legitimacy of his presidency is being challenged by Democrats and the media, aides and associates say. 
His exaggerations about inauguration crowds and false assertions about illegal balloting have been distractions as advisers have tried to launch his presidency with a flurry of actions on the economy. 
Trumps spokesman, Sean Spicer, has twice stepped into the fray himself, including on Tuesday, when he doubled down on Trumps false claim that he lost the popular vote because 3 million to 5 million people living in the U.S. illegally cast ballots. 
All 50 states and the District of Columbia have finalized their election results with no reports of the kind of widespread fraud that Trump is alleging. 
He believes what he believes based on the information he was provided, said Spicer, who provided no evidence to back up the presidents statements. 
If the presidents claim were true it would mark the most significant election fraud in U.S. history  and ironically, would raise the same questions about Trumps legitimacy that hes trying to avoid. Yet Spicer repeatedly sidestepped questions about whether the Trump administration would investigate the allegations pushed by the president. 
Rep. Elijah Cummings, ranking Democrat on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said Wednesday his panel has already sent letters to the attorneys general in all 50 states asking for reports of any election irregularities. 
The president can join me and my staff, Cummings said on MSNBC. He also said he wants Congress to restore voting protections, citing a Supreme Court ruling that gutted key sections of the Voting Rights Act, particularly the provision requiring southern states to get clearance in advance from the Justice Department before legislating changes in voting laws and procedures. 
Some Trump allies say Trump is justified in using his platform to defend his standing. They point to Georgia Democratic Rep. John Lewis pre-inauguration statement that he did not see Trump as a legitimate president, as well as U.S. intelligence agencies assessment that Russia meddled in the election in order to help Trump win. 
Segments of his own government keep driving this narrative, said Roger Stone, a longtime confidant. I dont think it hurts to point it out. 
Key advisers in Trumps inner circle concede the focus on crowd claims and alleged voter fraud have been a distraction. 
After Fridays inaugural festivities, the new president grew increasingly upset the next day by what he felt was biased media coverage of womens marches across the globe protesting his election, according to a person familiar with his thinking. Trump was particularly enraged with CNN, which he thought was gloating by continually running photos of the womens march alongside the smaller crowds that attended his inauguration the day before, according to this person, one of several White House aides and associates who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about private conversations. 
Tuesday night on Twitter, Trump slammed CNN again, referring to the network as FAKE NEWS @CNN while praising rival Fox News Channel. 
Trump has had a tumultuous relationship with the press, frequently calling the media dishonest and insulting individual reporters by name at his rallies and on Twitter. Still, two people close to Trump said he expected his coverage to turn more favorable once he took office. Instead, hes told people he believes its gotten worse. 
The bad press over the weekend has not allowed Trump to enjoy the White House as he feels he deserves, according to one person who has spoken with him. 
The result has been a full display of Trumps propensity for exaggeration and more. During an appearance at the CIA Saturday, he wrongly said the inaugural crowds gathered on the National Mall stretched to the Washington Monument, despite clear photo evidence to the contrary. And during a reception with lawmakers from both parties Monday night, he repeated his false assertion that millions of illegal immigrants provided Hillary Clintons margin in the popular vote. 
AP writers Stephen Ohlemacher and Vivian Salama contributed to this report. 
Copyright (c) 2017 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
John O'Neill, 'Trump announces major voter fraud investigation', Chicago Sun-Times (online), 25 Jan 2017 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16226EACAB3E1568 
