Dems blast talk of 'voter fraud' -Say Lawson using 'inflammatory rhetoric,' playing partisan games 
October 21, 2016 | Evansville Courier & Press (IN) 
Author: Zach Osowski 
Section: News 
537 Words 
Page: A11 
OpenURL 
Link 
Indiana Democrats are accusing Indiana Secretary of State Connie Lawson of playing partisan games and using "inflammatory rhetoric" when she alleged thousands of cases of voter registration discrepancies in Indiana could be voter fraud. 
On Tuesday, Lawson said her office had found thousands of instances where names and birth dates don't match up with what voters have provided to individual county clerks. The Indiana Democratic Party is crying foul after Lawson failed to release the exact number or where those cases of potential fraud occurred. 
Party spokesman Drew Anderson said with high-profile races in Indiana and with Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump claiming the national election is rigged, Lawson using a term like "voter fraud" without proof that fraud has actually occurred reeks of partisan politics. 
"It should be the duty of our elected officials to calm the waters ahead of what is sure to be a very vigorous election," Anderson said. "Instead ... Lawson rushed to judgment without apparently knowing all the facts or without doing her homework." 
Lawson's office released the following statement on Wednesday when discussing the potential for fraud. 
"At this time, my office is not sure why these records were changed, but we have evaluated the Statewide Voter Registration System and have found no indication it has been compromised," Lawson said. "We believe this may be a case of voter fraud." 
On Wednesday Lawson told IndyStar, she didn't rush to a conclusion. 
"I said it 'could be.' We did not say that it was (voter fraud)," Lawson said. "One of our main concerns was that voters would think that the (system) had been hacked. We wanted to make it very clear the statewide voter registration system has not been hacked." 
In Vanderburgh County, the Voter Registration Office has been busy taking calls from people concerned about whether their voter information is correct. Republican board member Connie Carrier said they haven't seen any issues yet. Her Democratic counterpart, Tony Bushrod, agreed with her, saying the last few days had been very busy, but no discrepancies or suspicious activities have been discovered. 
Emily Shrock, the Indiana Democratic Party's voter protection director, said these discrepancies could 
be a simple as a woman getting married and not changing her name on her voter registration. She said for Lawson to throw around the word "fraud" without proof could depress voter turnout. 
She explained actual voter fraud is only committed when someone purposefully votes as someone else. She said confirmed cases of impersonation fraud have only occurred 31 times since 2000 across the nation. 
"What Hoosiers are seeing in the news is not voter fraud. Period," Shrock said. 
After receiving reports of voter discrepancies, Lawson asked Indiana State Police to investigate. Neither her office nor Indiana State Police would reveal exactly how many voter files they believe may be compromised or in which counties they were found. 
Responding to Democrats, Jeff Cardwell, chairman of the Indiana Republican Party, said, "It is extremely unfortunate that the (Indiana) Democratic Party is desperately attacking the integrity of Secretary of State Connie Lawson, a Hoosier who has served with distinction as our state's top election official." 
Hoosier voters are encouraged to visit the Secretary of State's website to check their voter registration prior to Nov. 8. 
 2016 Journal Media Group 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Zach Osowski, Zach.Osowski@courierpress.com, 'Dems blast talk of 'voter fraud' -Say Lawson using 'inflammatory rhetoric,' playing partisan games', Evansville Courier & Press (online), 21 Oct 2016 A11 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16028664690BDFA0 
