Few voting issues reported across TN
Newspaper November 9, 2016 | Knoxville News Sentinel (TN)
Author: Natalie Neysa Alund, Andy Humbles and Ariana Sawyer Section: News 363 Words
Page: A8
Few voting issues reported across TN
Despite concerns of voter fraud leading to Election Day, only minor incidents were reported at polling sites across Tennessee.

Wilson County representatives reported voting was halted for a short stint at several precincts after their voting system went down Tuesday morning, and a small fire in the same building as a Knoxville voting precinct led to a brief evacuation.

Also in Knox County, someone put up fake signs near a polling location at the University of Tennessee at Knoxville in an attempt to fool voters. The sign encouraged Hillary Clinton supporters to "save time" by texting in their vote.

The only way to cast a vote is in person at a polling location.

"If you see anything like this at a polling place, contact your local election commission immediately," UT Knoxville College Democrats said on Facebook.

Elsewhere in Knoxville, the small fire caused by a kiln in a pottery class closed the polls for 10 minutes at the South Knoxville Community Center.

According to Knoxville Fire Department Capt. D.J. Corcoran, the fire never reached the gymnasium where voting was held, and firefighters stood watch to ensure no one tampered with the voting machines during the evacuation.

Early Tuesday, dozens of voters in Wilson County reported machines weren't working.

Phillip Warren, administrator of elections in Wilson County, said it happened because the printers weren't reading correctly.

"There was a problem with the bar codes being printed properly," Warren said.

Elections officials said the machines then started working manually.

Everything was back to normal about an hour after the polls opened.

"The great thing about our voting system is that there are multiple backups that can be deployed to solve issues like this," Warren said. "It was a glitch and (the workers) weren't trained and we had to retrain them real quick."

Kim West, who voted at Lakeview Elementary School in Nashville, said she cast her ballot smoothly.

"One, two, three, four and you're out the door," West said.

Bill Weathers, who oversees that precinct said, "We started off in a quandary where we had an extra step, but it's fine now."

Jason Gonzales contributed to this report.
© 2016 Journal Media Group

