Election 2016 - Officials: No claims of voter fraud - Hargett says Tennessee counties ready for election
Newspaper October 18, 2016 | Knoxville News Sentinel (TN)
Author: Michael Collins Section: News 379 Words
Page: A11
Election 2016 - Officials: No claims of voter fraud - Hargett says Tennessee counties ready for election
WASHINGTON - Election officials have received no complaints about possible voter fraud in the state but are ready to handle any problems that may arise with the election just three weeks away, Tennessee Secretary of State Tre Hargett said Monday.

"We believe we're ready," Hargett said. "We believe all 95 counties are ready."

The possibility of widespread voter fraud has been invoked numerous times in recent days by Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump.

Trump alleges – without supporting evidence – a conspiracy between the news media and Democrats to steal the election from him and hand it to Democrat Hillary Clinton.

"The election is absolutely being rigged by the dishonest and distorted media pushing Crooked Hillary – but also at many polling places," Trump posted on Twitter on Sunday.

His claim has been challenged by election officials across the country.

In a news conference Monday, Hargett and state Elections Coordinator Mark Goins said the only calls they've gotten about the possibility of a rigged election have come from the news media.

"I keep hearing about this rigged election," Hargett said. "(But) nobody is calling our office and saying you've got to stop this."

Hargett and Goins expressed confidence that Tennessee's election will be carried out fairly.

Voting machines in the state are approved by local election commissions in each county and vary from one county to another, Hargett said. The machines are tested to make sure they work properly and can't be accessed online.

Also, some 13,500 to 15,000 poll workers will be out on Election Day to make sure voting is fair and ballots are counted properly , Hargett and Goins said.

Poll workers are volunteers and must live in the county where they work.

Cyber security remains a priority, Hargett and Goins said. To their knowledge, neither the state nor any of its 95 counties has been subject to cyber attack, they said.

A record 1.24 million Tennesseans voted in the state's presidential primary in March. Trump won the GOP contest, carrying 94 of the state's 95 counties. Clinton easily defeated Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders in the Democratic primary.

Hargett predicted high voter turnout for the Nov. 8 general election as well. Early voting begins Wednesday.

Anyone who witnesses possible voter fraud can report the questionable activity by calling toll free 1-877-850-4959.
© 2016 Journal Media Group

