State lawmakers praise president on immigration
Newspaper January 26, 2017 | Knoxville News Sentinel (TN)
Author: Michael Collins Section: News 637 Words
Page: A11
State lawmakers praise president on immigration
WASHINGTON – Tennessee Republicans in Congress applauded President Donald Trump for signing a series of immigration executive actions Wednesday that include efforts to build a wall on the Mexican border, but Democrat Steve Cohen accused him of discrimination.

"President Trump was very clear throughout his campaign that combating illegal immigration and making our homeland safe was a top priority," said Rep. Chuck Fleischmann, R-Ooltewah. "I fully agree with the president that we should protect our borders and also not accept refugees from certain countries unless we can verify they are not a threat to our national security."

Rep. Diane Black, R-Gallatin, lauded Trump for leading "where former President Obama would not."

"With these orders, he is acting to protect our national security and make good on his promises to the overwhelming majority of Tennesseans who elected him," Black said. "Americans have compassion for our neighbors abroad but we know that our first responsibility is to protect our fellow citizens here at home. That is the core of President Trump's 'America first' agenda, and it is an agenda that families in my district are eager to see put to work."

Less than a week into his presidency, Trump signed the orders during a visit to the Department of Homeland Security headquarters in Washington.

Provisions in the orders include cutting off federal funding for sanctuary cities that protect undocumented immigrants from deportation, as well as expansion of detention space for migrants who have been caught and are being shipped back to their home countries.

Cohen, D-Memphis, blasted Trump's actions and noted the president has claimed he wants to improve the nation's infrastructure.

"If the president is looking to make a major infrastructure investment, I'd encourage him to focus on places like Memphis, instead of large expanses of empty desert," Cohen said. "We need to create jobs and protect health care and Social Security, not fear-monger with baseless assertions of voter fraud."

"I think everyone agrees that we should screen refugees to ensure that no one intent on doing harm is allowed into our country," Cohen said. "It currently takes up to two years for applicants to be fully screened, and I support this screening process. But discriminating on the basis of religion, as the president has previously suggested, is wrong and unconstitutional."

Republicans said Trump made the right call.

"I am pleased President Trump is following through on his commitments to strongly enforce our country's immigration laws and strengthen security at the border," said Sen. Bob Corker, R-Chattanooga. "I look forward to working with his administration to more fully reform our immigration system."

Rep. Phil Roe, R-Johnson City, said a secure border is critical to restoring Americans' confidence in their government.

"Justifiably, East Tennesseans have been outraged over the last eight years as the previous administration picked and chose which laws to enforce, allowing so-called sanctuary cities around the country to refuse to abide by our country's immigration laws while expecting federal funding," he said. "I am pleased the Trump administration is starting to restore the rule of law."

Rep. David Kustoff, R-Germantown, said he's glad Trump is making border security a priority.

"American's current immigration system is broken and threatens our national security," he said.

Rep. Marsha Blackburn, R-Brentwood, noted that she and Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., led the push in the last Congress to halt the Syrian refugee resettlement program. Trump is expected to sign a separate executive action to indefinitely block Syrian refugees from entering the United States.

"It is appropriate that the president take the action to implement while Congress works to address the issue this year," Blackburn said. "It is also appropriate that he take the action to move forward with securing the border. The money is appropriated, and the American people are ready for this shovel-ready project to begin."

Reach Michael Collins at 703-854-8927, at mcollins2@gannett.com or on Twitter at @mcollinsNEWS.
© 2017 Journal Media Group

