Two voter fraud cases sent to Knox DA
Newspaper November 15, 2016 | Knoxville News Sentinel (TN)
Author: Don Jacobs Section: News 362 Words
Page: A7
Two voter fraud cases sent to Knox DA
Knox County's administrator of elections said Monday he intends to provide Knox County prosecutors with two voter fraud cases for possible felony charges.

Cliff Rodgers, administrator of elections, said one case involves a woman who lied on her voter registration form about being a felon. In the second case, a man voted in Knox County after apparently lying about when he moved to Lenoir City.

"I'm turning it over to to the district attorney because he lied under oath," Rodgers said. "That's what we call voter fraud."

Rodgers said people who move out of a county are allowed to vote in their previous county of residence if they moved less than 90 days before the election. The man who relocated to Lenoir City, Rodgers said, informed voting officials he had moved within that 90-day window. He was allowed to vote on a machine.

The man's wife, however, was in a different line and she told officials the couple had moved about 18 months ago, Rodgers said. She was offered a provisional ballot to vote with, but she declined after being told her vote probably would be rejected because of the move.

"It's serious business when you sign one of these things," Rodgers said as he held up a voter registration form. "It's not just voting, it's also attempting to register."

The voter registration form warns people in bright red print that giving false information or trying to register when not qualified is punishable by 2-12 years imprisonment and/or a $5,000 fine.

Rodgers said election commission staff discovered the conviction of a woman who denied being a felon. When contacted about the felony on her criminal record, Rodgers said the woman responded, "She didn't feel like a felon."

That case also will be referred to Knox County District Attorney General Charme Allen for possible prosecution.

"I just provide the facts," Rodgers said. Allen's office will determine if there was intent to commit perjury.

Rodgers said he has provided prosecutors with other cases since he took the post more than five years ago, but he hasn't been subpoenaed to testify.

According to Knox County Deputy District Attorney Kyle Hixson, cases reported by Rodgers may have been prosecuted without his involvement.
© 2016 Journal Media Group

