Presidential election - Focus sharpens as election nears - TN Republicans say Trump must accept results of election
Newspaper October 21, 2016 | Knoxville News Sentinel (TN)
Author: Joey Garrison, Joel Ebert , and Michael Collins Section: News 1325 Words
Page: A15
Presidential election - Focus sharpens as election nears - TN Republicans say Trump must accept results of election
Tennessee's top Republicans – including the state's two GOP U.S. senators and governor – urged Donald Trump, their party's presidential nominee, to accept the results of the Nov. 8 election, no matter who ends up winning.

The calls to accept the results come as Trump declined to say at Wednesday night's debate whether he would do so. On Thursday, he doubled down on those remarks, telling supporters in Ohio that he would "totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election – if I win."

U.S. Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., came out quickly following Wednesday's debate with a statement urging that Trump say he will accept the results of the election.

"It is imperative that Donald Trump clearly state that he will accept the results of the election when complete," Corker posted on his campaign Twitter account late Wednesday night.

U.S. Sen. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., said an "enduring symbol of the American democracy is the freedom to vote for our leaders and the restraint to respect the results."

"When you run for public office, you accept the verdict of the voters," Alexander said in a statement.

Gov. Bill Haslam, who has said he does not support Trump's candidacy, told reporters on Thursday that the United States is "predicated on a peaceful transfer of power and I think one of the basics of that is the acceptance of election results."

He pointed to the outcome of the 2000 presidential election between Democrat Al Gore and Republican George W. Bush that went weeks past Election Day because of a close contest in Florida.

"Now, it's one thing if an election is – we had the election in 2000 that was obviously too close to call and had to be played out, but we had a process for playing that out," Haslam said. "But, again, the whole system is based on a peaceful transfer of power and part of that includes, you know, accepting election results."

House members weigh in

Some of Trump's more vocal supporters in Tennessee also called on him – and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton – to accept the election results. Others downplayed Trump's comments.

"I believe that Donald Trump will win this election and, when he does, I hope that Hillary Clinton will be as gracious in her defeat as she promised to be last night," U.S. Rep. Diane Black, R-Gallatin, said in a statement. "But regardless of the outcome, both candidates should honor the results once they are certified and accept the legitimacy of the process."

U.S. Rep. Scott DesJarlais, R-South Pittsburg, also referenced the 2000 presidential election, calling it "fair to evaluate the totals after the fact" before making a decision on the election's outcome.

"Fortunately, in Tennessee we have fairness and integrity in our electoral process, but there are other parts of the country where that is not the case," DesJarlais said in a statement. "In any election, I think it is fair to evaluate the totals after the fact before making a decision on the results."

U.S. Rep. John J. Duncan Jr. R-Knoxville, drew a similar comparison.

"I think what Donald Trump has in mind is that he may have to do what Sen. Gore did in 2000 if we end up with a close election in some states," Duncan said.

Rep. Chuck Fleischmann, R-Ooltewah, said every "person who is legally eligible to vote, should be able to vote."

"So long as those votes have been legitimately cast and counted, a candidate should respect the results," he said.

Meanwhile, Rep. Steve Cohen, D-Memphis, also said Trump should accept the election results.

"The rule of law is grounded in popular elections," Cohen said. "All of this action by Donald Trump to say it's rigged, to question the system – it really is anti-American. It sounds like somebody speaking from the Kremlin rather than the White House."

Confidence in Tennessee elections

With regularity during the final weeks of the campaign, Trump has called the election "rigged," arguing that the media has worked to help Clinton and that voter fraud is rampant in urban cities controlled by Democrats. He's not offered evidence to back up the latter claim.

From the state to the local level, Tennessee election officials – both Republicans and Democrats – dismiss the notion that the election is rigged but have vowed to do everything they can to ensure a fair contest. In Tennessee, all 95 county election commissions are controlled by Republicans, since the GOP holds the majority in the Tennessee General Assembly.

Haslam said he has confidence in Tennessee's voting process, led by Tennessee Secretary of State Tre Hargett.

Hargett, who earlier this week expressed confidence in the integrity of voting in Tennessee, said he believes "both sides have done a disservice." He pointed to remarks President Barack Obama has made on cyber security – and possible greater federal oversight on elections – after emails from Democratic National Committee officials were hacked in August.

"Anything that discourages people and causes them to discredit the end result doesn't do any favors," Hargett said. "I think that's antithetical of what we're trying to create. We want people to be engaged and not discouraged to be engaged."

Jim DeLanis, the Republican chairman of the Davidson County Election Commission, said he has confidence in the voting process in Nashville.

"We are comfortable that the Davidson County election process is secure," he said, reiterating that Nashville's voting machines are sealed, numbered and not connected to phone lines or the internet. "While no election is perfect, we believe that we can continue to hold free and fair elections."

Both Republican and Democratic party chairmen in Knox County say it's not possible for the election to be rigged.

"It's an absolute load of crap," said Cameron Brooks, Knox County's Democratic Party chairman. "It is not an issue in this country"

Buddy Burkhardt, the Knox County GOP chairman, said that he doesn't believe the system is rigged, either.

"Do I think the elections are rigged? No," he said. "Do I think they're rigged so certain people win? No."

Burkhardt said that he is organizing people to act as poll watchers, just as in any election year. Brooks said he has no plans to do so.

Burkhardt said that he plans to support Trump, though he disagrees with his belief that there's some kind of election rigging underway.

Robert Meyers, chairman of the Shelby County Election Commission, said procedures are in place to "protect the integrity of the election."

"We have a history of properly reporting any problems we have with our voting systems. So, people should take heart that those systems and processes and our integrity will provide for free and fair elections," said Meyers, a Republican.

For example, the election tabulation system and voter rolls are not connected to the internet and are not connected to each other.

"We believe that in Shelby County that we have a safe and secure voting system," he said.

Even with safety measures in place, election commissions provide oversight and hold the paid election staff accountable, said Democrat Norma Lester, who serves with Meyers on the Shelby County Election Commission.

But Republican Shelby County Commissioner Terry Roland, an early Trump supporter and convention delegate, says he knows elections can be rigged.

Roland lost a 2005 special election for state senate by 13 votes to former state senator Ophelia Ford. After he demanded an investigation, election officials learned of a number of improprieties with poll workers, who were later indicted. Those improprieties include at least two votes cast for people who had died too close to election day to have their names purged from voter rolls.

That election was overturned and Roland lost again by more than 18,500 votes.

"What you've got to do, you've got to get down to the precinct level, because here's the problem: They don't check an election to see if it's bad. It's on the candidate to check it," Roland said.

Contributing: Gerald Witt in Knoxville, and Linda A. Moore in Memphis and USA TODAY.

Trump: I'll 'totally' accept election results – 'if I win.'

Page 10A
© 2016 Journal Media Group

