42 reports of voter fraud in Tenn.
Newspaper January 26, 2017 | Knoxville News Sentinel (TN)
Author: Jake Lowary Section: News 315 Words
Page: A10
42 reports of voter fraud in Tenn.
Tennessee Secretary of State Tre Hargett confirmed Tuesday there were more than three dozen reported instances of potential voter fraud in the three major 2016 elections, but said he remains confident in the integrity of the current voting system.

Hargett's acknowledgment of the reports is a break from his previous claims that Tennessee's voting system integrity was strong and there were no reports of voter fraud.

In October Hargett told The Tennessean the only reports of voter fraud came from the media, though then-candidate Donald Trump had tweeted often about the election being "rigged" for opponent Hillary Clinton. The October news conference was called in response to Trump's claims that the election was rigged.

Hargett said on Wednesday there were 42 reports after the election of voter fraud, including convicted felons casting ballots, reports of double voting and "registration concerns," he said in a statement.

Hargett said all have been turned over to local district attorneys for prosecution. Hargett's office could not say, however, where the votes had been cast.

A breakdown of the 42 reports provided by Hargett's office shows the following, which were collected over all of 2016, which includes the March SEC primary, August state office elections and the November general:

18 instances of felons voting

9 instances of double voting

9 instances of residential issues

2 instances of fraudulent voter registration

2 instances of voters who are currently under investigation

1 instance of fraudulent absentee voting

1 instance of non-citizens voting

More than 4.3 million votes were cast in the three 2016 elections, according to the state's tallies.

The Dec. 13 report came four days after the state's electors cast their official ballots for Trump at the state Capitol, which Hargett attended along with Gov. Bill Haslam. Adam Ghassemi, communications director for Hargett's office, said "residential issues or concerns" means "questioning if a voter is voting in the district where they reside."

Follow Jake Lowary on Twitter @JakeLowary.
© 2017 Journal Media Group

