Trump says he will ask for major investigation of voter fraud 
January 25, 2017 | Wichita Eagle, The (KS) 
Author: ELIZABETH KOH, The Wichita Eagle 
Section: politics government 
359 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
President Donald Trump tweeted Wednesday that he would ask for a major investigation into voter fraud, after telling lawmakers that 3 million to 5 million illegal voters had cost him the popular vote. Multiple organizations have found no evidence to back up this claim. 
Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures! he wrote. 
I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and....--Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017// 
even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time). Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures!--Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017// 
But the examples of voter fraud Trump listed pertained specifically to registration -those registered to vote twice, those registered to vote illegally, or those registered to vote even though they are deceased and not to actual voter fraud. 
Nor have any state election organizations found any evidence of widespread fraud. No fraud was found by a coalition of journalism organizations monitoring the election and PolitiFact gave Trump a pants on fire rating for claims of rigging that he alleged took place on Nov. 8. 
Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted also weighed in on Twitter shortly after Trumps early morning pronouncement, saying the state -which Trump won -was conducting a 2016 election review and had also done so in 2012. 
Easy to vote, hard to cheat, he wrote. 
We conducted a review 4 years ago in Ohio & already have a statewide review of 2016 election underway. Easy to vote, hard to cheat #Ohio https://t.co/OpDrPUX6Ev--Jon Husted (@JonHusted) January 25, 2017// 
Kobach repeats Trump's unsupported claimsThe top election official in Kansas claimed that millions voted illegally in 2016, but can't point to hard evidence to support that. (Nov. 30, 2016/Bryan Lowry/The Wichita Eagle) 
Trump has said repeatedly since the election that undocumented voters were responsible for tipping the popular vote against him, which he lost by nearly 3 million votes to Hillary Clinton. 
Copyright 2017 The Wichita Eagle 
Citation (aglc Style) 
ELIZABETH KOH, The Wichita Eagle, 'Trump says he will ask for major investigation of voter fraud', Wichita Eagle, The (online), 25 Jan 2017 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1622560ACB131928 
