Opponents playing gotcha in voting case, Kobach says 
October 14, 2016 | Wichita Eagle, The (KS) 
Author: Bryan Lowry, The Wichita Eagle 
Section: politics government 
505 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Secretary of State Kris Kobach blasted his opponents in a federal lawsuit on Friday, saying they were trying to play a game of legal gotcha. 
A federal court clerk entered Kobach as being in default in a case concerning the states proof-ofcitizenship requirement earlier this week because Kobach had failed to file documents with the court on time. Kobach filed a motion on Friday asking the court to set aside the default. 
We were under the impression that the court had suspended all nondiscovery deadlines in the case, Kobach said. 
The case concerns whether the states requirement that people provide proof of citizenship, such as a birth certificate or passport, to register to vote violates the 14th Amendments guarantee of equal protection. The case has gone through multiple iterations; the plaintiffs have amended their complaint three times. 
Theyre trying to play a game of gotcha litigation, Kobach said. They keep changing their complaint and forcing us to write a new answer. 
Kobach called the complaint now before the court version 4.0, saying his opponents keep correcting deficiencies in their complaint. 
Will Lawrence, an attorney for the plaintiffs, rejected that characterization. 
Lawrence said the original complaint was amended only after Kobach unilaterally registered the original plaintiffs last year, an action that affected their legal standing in the case. The case also has been affected by a ruling in a separate case, which settled some of the matters before the court. 
I think its a ridiculous accusation for him to say that, given his antics in this case and how hard hes working to make sure that people, who are qualified to vote, dont get to cast their vote in this election, Lawrence said. 
Federal Judge Julie Robinson will decide whether to set aside Kobachs default status in the case. If she upholds the default, the plaintiffs will have scored a major victory and succeeded in overturning the states proof-of-citizenship requirement. Supporters of the requirement say it prevents voter fraud; opponents say it puts up hurdles to voting. 
Robinson is presiding over another case involving that requirement. She ruled earlier this year that 
Kobach could not require people who register at the Department of Motor Vehicles to provide proof of citizenship under the federal Motor Voter Law. 
People who register using the states website still must provide proof of citizenship. 
Robinson has ordered Kobach to instruct local election officials to inform the more than 18,000 DMV voters affected by that ruling of their right to vote. 
She approved language Friday for the letter that will have to go out to these voters before Election Day. Robinson rejected Kobachs original language for the letter, saying in her order that his wording would have been confusing to voters. 
Asked about this, Kobach said he was trying to provide more details to voters and that the judge opted for a briefer version. Robinson wrote in her order that it is not a matter of providing more instead of less information to voters. It is a matter of providing them with consistent information about the law as it stands now. 
Bryan Lowry: 785-296-3006, @BryanLowry3 
Copyright 2016 The Wichita Eagle 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Bryan Lowry, The Wichita Eagle, 'Opponents playing gotcha in voting case, Kobach says', Wichita Eagle, The (online), 14 Oct 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16005FE7A0361418 
