Kobach found in default in proof-of-citizenship lawsuit 
October 11, 2016 | Wichita Eagle, The (KS) 
Author: Bryan Lowry, The Wichita Eagle 
Section: politics government 
323 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
The Kansas requirement that voters provide proof of citizenship could be struck down by a federal court because Secretary of State Kris Kobach failed to file a response earlier this year. 
The states requirement that voters provide a birth certificate or other proof of citizenship when they register to vote had already been weakened after federal courts ruled that the state could not require proof of citizenship of people who register at the Department of Motor Vehicles or with the federal form. 
However, the requirement remained intact for voters who registered using the state form or through the states website. 
A separate lawsuit challenged the law in its entirety on the grounds that the proof-of-citizenship requirement violates the 14th Amendments guarantee of equal protection. 
A federal judge did not grant Kobachs motion to dismiss the case in July, and now the proof-ofcitizenship requirement could be struck down because Kobachs office failed to file an answer to the plaintiffs complaint. 
A federal district court clerk has found the state in default status after plaintiffs attorneys made a motion this week. 
If somebody doesnt file an answer to a complaint after the 20-day period expires, then they are deemed to have admitted everything, said Mark Johnson, one of the attorneys for the plaintiffs. 
Kobachs office did not immediately comment on the default. Johnson said he expects Kobachs office will make a motion to dismiss it. 
The clerks entry of default is just the first step in the process, according to Will Lawrence, another attorney for the plaintiffs. The next step would be a judge issuing a default judgment, which would essentially be declaring victory for the plaintiffs because of Kobachs offices failure to answer. 
The victory, if this is allowed to stand, is proof-of-citizenship requirement violates equal protection, so its unconstitutional, Johnson said. 
Kobach has contended that the requirement protects against voter fraud by noncitizens. Voting-rights advocates say that it puts up hurdles that make it tougher for many citizens. 
Bryan Lowry: 785-296-3006, @BryanLowry3 
Copyright 2016 The Wichita Eagle 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Bryan Lowry, The Wichita Eagle, 'Kobach found in default in proof-of-citizenship lawsuit', Wichita Eagle, The (online), 11 Oct 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15FF62EDB0AD0F40 
