So, who could run for Kansas governor in 2018? 
January 27, 2017 | Wichita Eagle, The (KS) 
Author: Bryan Lowry and Daniel Salazar, The Wichita Eagle 
Section: politics government 
1855 
Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Two of Kansas highest-ranking state officials, along with a former Wichita mayor and a sitting congressman, are weighing possible bids for the governors office in 2018. 
The Democratic contender in 2014 is considering another run, as well, while the states lieutenant governor isnt considering a run yet, according to his office. 
The race is wide open with U.S. Rep. Lynn Jenkins, a Topeka Republican who looked like a strong early contender, announcing Wednesday that she does not plan to run for any office in 2018. 
I think some people were deferring to Lynn Jenkins, thinking she would run and therefore hadnt made plans, said Clay Barker, the executive director of the Kansas Republican Party. 
With Jenkins out of contention, a crowded field of candidates has begun to emerge. 
Attorney General Derek Schmidt and Secretary of State Kris Kobach are both weighing bids. Two of the states most recognizable Republicans, the men share the same state office building in Topeka  a block away from the Statehouse  but represent very different styles of leadership and politics. 
U.S. Rep. Kevin Yoder, an Overland Park Republican, is considering his options, including the 2018 governors race. 
On the Democratic side, Paul Davis, the former minority leader of the Kansas House, said he is considering a second run for governor after losing to Gov. Sam Brownback in 2014. 
Former Wichita Mayor Carl Brewer, who would be the states first black governor, said he has had meetings about a possible campaign as a Democrat. 
Brewer said he also has been approached about running for the congressional seat left vacant by CIA Director Mike Pompeo, but he said he was more focused on Kansas. 
Before he was tapped by President Trump to head the Central Intelligence Agency, Pompeo also had been seen as an early contender for the governors mansion. 
The possibility that Kobach or Brownback could still be tapped for executive branch roles within the Trump administration makes the states political outlook even murkier, Davis said. 
If Brownback is named an ambassador or asked to serve another role in the administration, Lt. Gov. Jeff Colyer could run as a sitting governor. 
Barker said that when Jenkins announced she was giving up her congressional seat, he sent Yoder a facetious e-mail daring him to announce he wasnt running for anything either to complicate things even further. 
Jenkins, who was in the Kansas Statehouse on Friday, said she had gotten a lot of pressure to run for governor and wanted to announce her decision early to clear the way for other candidates. 
Barker rattled off Schmidt, Kobach and Colyer as possible contenders for the Republican nomination for governor, but noted that both Schmidt and Kobach live in Jenkins district and could always seek the congressional seat instead. Colyer resides in Yoders district. 
I think a lot of people will look at it and explore it. Some will drop out if they think theyre not getting traction, Barker said. And sometimes theres discussions where people may say, look, well come back together in three months where if somebodys clearly the leader in polling and fundraising, maybe some others will drop out. 
Greg Orman, who mounted an independent challenge to U.S. Sen. Pat Roberts in 2014, said he hasnt made any decisions about running for office. But he said there would be an opportunity for an independent to run for governor. 
Republicans 
Schmidt, an Independence Republican, has pursued mostly bipartisan causes during his six years as attorney general: Combating human trafficking, reforming the states open records law and protecting Kansans from consumer fraud. 
Kobach, on the other hand, has plunged into some of the nations most divisive debates, becoming a regular commentator on cable news about voter fraud and illegal immigration. He has championed stricter voting laws in Kansas that critics say make it more difficult to vote, and, in 2015, he became the only secretary of state in the nation with prosecutorial power. 
Kobach is more, I think, ideological, Barker said. He appeals to the people that have very strong conservative feelings whether their issue might be 10th amendment, you know, keep the federal government out, or immigration issues. 
Conversely, Schmidt seems to be more businesslike, executing his office, Barker said. 
Kobach advised Trump during the 2016 campaign and transition process, fueling speculation that he might end up with a role in the Trump administration. Now that he has been passed over for U.S. attorney general and secretary of homeland security, he may look to stay in Topeka instead of heading to Washington, D.C., for a second-tier position. 
Its fair to say that hes considering the gubernatorial race along with many other possibilities, said Desiree Taliaferro, Kobachs spokeswoman. 
Schmidt won re-election as the states top law enforcement officer by a 33.5 percentage point margin in 2014. Bob Beatty, a political scientist at Washburn University, said Schmidt could present himself as the steady hand for Republican voters to unite around. 
Im not planning on a voluntary retirement from public life, so I intend to be on the ballot. I havent made a decision for what office yet, Schmidt said when asked about his plans for 2018. 
Schmidt could run for a third term as attorney general or seek Jenkins congressional seat since he lives in her district. He said he has not ruled out a run for governor. 
I very much like what Im doing, he said. I also recognize that were going to need a strong governor, and I look forward to working with everybody as part of the Republican decision-making process to figure out who best fits where. 
Unless Brownback and the current Legislature are able to pass a long-term budget fix over the next two years, whoever takes over the office will face tough decisions about the states finances. 
Barker said a gubernatorial run by Yoder is a possibility. Yoder served as budget chairman in the Kansas House before getting elected to Congress in 2010. 
Hed have either route open to him. Hes getting seniority in Congress. He knows how to get things done  I also know its very hard on the family because (his wife) Brooke and the two girls are back in Johnson County, Barker said. 
U.S. Sen. Jerry Moran, a Manhattan Republican, succeeded Brownback in the U.S. Senate six years ago. His office would not comment on whether he would have any interest in replacing Brownback as governor. 
Beatty said that traditionally Kansans have looked to state-level officeholders for their governors. Brownback, who was elected while serving in the U.S. Senate, was an exception. 
Were probably going back to the norm, which is gubernatorial candidates coming from the state versus Washington, D.C., Beatty said. 
Colyer, the lieutenant governor, certainly looks like hes positioning himself to run for governor, Beatty said. The last six months hes much more prominent in the administration. 
Colyers spokeswoman, Laura McCabe, said that he has not even considered whether to mount a run at this point. Thats quite a ways away, she said. 
Barker said any nominee will have to distinguish himself from Brownback, and that will be most difficult for Colyer. Brownback has faced low approval ratings during his second term. A September poll by the Morning Consult found him to be the least popular governor in the nation, with 23 percent of Kansans approving of his performance. 
Beatty said Kansas Senate President Susan Wagle, a Wichita Republican, could mount a credible run for governor, noting that shes shown a willingness to oppose Brownback on key issues. 
Wagles office said in a statement that she is singularly focused on passing a balanced budget and leading the Senate through this legislative session and will evaluate how she can best serve Kansans moving forward, and what that role may look like, at the appropriate time. 
Former state Rep. Ed OMalley, who runs the Wichita-based Kansas Leadership Center, also announced in a YouTube video earlier in the month that he was forming an exploratory campaign. 
Democrats 
Kansans have elected the candidate who belongs to the opposite political party of the sitting president, in every gubernatorial election since 1990. 
Beatty said Democrats, who picked up 13 seats in the Legislature this year despite Trumps double-digit win in the state, stand a stronger chance of winning the governors office next year with a Republican in the White House. 
The most obvious candidate would be Davis, a Lawrence Democrat who narrowly lost to Brownback in 2014 and has remained a key fundraiser for the party. Davis, an attorney, is representing suspended voters in a federal lawsuit against Kobach that will continue to play out as the 2018 election approaches. 
Thats the guy who wants it from what we can see, Beatty said. 
Davis said he has been having conversations with a variety of people about what he might do in 2018. He said he wants to wait until the end of the legislative session before he decides about the race. 
This is not necessarily an infomercial for myself, but I think the state really needs somebody who has a pretty broad understanding of state government and has the ability to bring in good people who are going 
to redirect a lot of these policies that have not worked, Davis said when asked his thoughts on what 
skills the next governor needs. Beatty praised Davis ability as a fundraiser, but said he will have to mount a substantially different campaign in 2018 if he wants to win. 
He would have to do something different because in this era you have to be much stronger in your message, and I think they ran a relatively cautious campaign, Beatty said. Davis ran a campaign like he believed the polls, whereas in the state of Kansas you never want to believe those polls. 
On the 2014 campaign trail, Davis had repeatedly warned that the state was headed for a fiscal crisis. Brownback dismissed those claims as Chicken Little sky is falling rhetoric, but the week after the election the states budget director announced that Kansas faced a massive budget gap. 
Weve got to get the state back on sound financial footing, Davis said. 
Brewer, who served as Wichitas mayor from 2007 to 2015, also pointed to the budget as the states most pressing issue and called for rolling back Brownbacks tax policies. Weve got to figure out this budget problem Youve got to have revenue coming in to repair the 
damage thats been done, Brewer said. 
Brewer said people have encouraged him to consider running. He said hes been exploring the option, but has no deadline for a decision. Brewer would make history as the states first African-American governor. Ive never given that any thought, Brewer said when asked about this fact. What I look at is a 
community and a state that needs leadership. 
Brewer pointed to his track record as Wichita mayor, saying that he led the city during the nations worst financial crisis since the Great Depression and we managed to survive. Former U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom, who stepped down last April, said he would not run for governor in 
2018. But he said there may be an opportunity to run for office down the road. The timing right now is not good, he said. Ive just started with a law firm Ive committed to. Contributing: Lindsay Wise of McClatchy Washington Bureau Bryan Lowry: 785-296-3006, @BryanLowry3 
Copyright 2017 The Wichita Eagle 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Bryan Lowry and Daniel Salazar, The Wichita Eagle, 'So, who could run for Kansas governor in 2018?', Wichita Eagle, The (online), 27 Jan 2017 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16232C81B74F4D40 
