Tracking Trump:6 things New Orleans needs to know 
January 26, 2017 | Times-Picayune, The: Web Edition Articles (New Orleans, LA) 
Author: Greg LaRose, NOLA.com 
Section: Politics 
903 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
President Donald Trump took his first major steps toward making good on a campaign pledge to crack down on illegal immigration into the United States with the signing of two executive orders Wednesday (Jan. 25). They highlight the edition of the Trump Tracker. 
Wednesday recap 
One order seeks to put in motion a timeline for the construction of a wall on the Mexican border, a project with price tag estimates that have ranged between $8 billion and $25 billion. Trump told ABC News construction would begin "in months" and that Mexico would reimburse U.S. taxpayers "in a form, perhaps a complicated form." Any such arrangement would need initially need approval from Congress, which would have to authorize the money needed to start work. 
The second, among other restrictions on immigrants, holds a fiscal sword over so-called sanctuary cities, where officials refuse to identify and turn over illegal immigrants to the federal government for deportation. Mayor Mitch Landrieu has said the status doesn't apply to New Orleans, where police are ordered not to ask about a suspect's immigration status. Grant money from Washington bolsters a variety of city efforts and initiatives, ranging from crime reduction to housing. 
Beginning today, the United States of America gets back control of its borders. Full speech from today @DHSgov: https://t.co/CXn2u87Vv6 pic.twitter.com/48iZam5Fai 
--Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 26, 2017 
In a statement issued late Wednesday, Landrieu said New Orleans would "continue to be a place whose racial, ethnic, and cultural diversity contribute to our growing economy, rich culture, resilience, and commitment to equity and inclusion. 
"The NOPD is focused on arresting those who commit violent crimes, not enforcing civil immigration laws," Landrieu said. "...Those who commit a crime will be arrested -political theatrics have no bearing on the serious work at hand." 
Another U.S. mayor facing a daunting crime problem reacted to Trump's blunt pledge to intervene, which came via Twitter: 
If Chicago doesn't fix the horrible "carnage" going on, 228 shootings in 2017 with 42 killings (up 24% from 
2016), I will send in the Feds! 
--Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017 
Chicago Mayor Rahm Emmanuel said he welcomed federal help to local enforcement but opposed any insertion of National Guard troops into the city. Trump hasn't gotten that specific about his approach to quell violence in the city. 
On Wednesday, Rep. Cedric Richmond, D-New Orleans, was critical of Trump's pick to lead the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice. Richmond's take is significant because the division was asked to lead the investigation into the July police shooting of Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge. It remains to be seen how or if John Gore's appointment will impact that matter. 
Trump is still standing by his claim that illegal voters had a hand in the Nov. 8 election, which he won in the Electoral College but lost in the popular count. But beyond tweets stating his intent to call for an investigation, he offered no additional details on how the probe would unfold. His spokesman did not expound in a press briefing Wednesday afternoon. 
I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and.... 
--Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017 
even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time). Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures! 
--Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017 
In response, Louisiana Secretary of State Tom Schedler issued a statement Wednesday saying his office found no instances of voter fraud from the November election. 
Looking ahead 
Mexico's president, Enrique Pena Nieto, is scheduled to visit the White House next week, but an official close to the Mexican administration says Tuesday's (Jan. 31) trip might be cancelled following Trump's proclamation that Mexico would pay for his proposed border wall. 
When the two met in Mexico City in August, the president-elect said Nieto had conceded his country would finance construction. Nieto, whose approval ratings are at dismal depths, said that was never agreed to in their conversation. Nevertheless, he was criticized for not taking a firm stance against Trump on the wall. 
Trump is scheduled to speak Thursday at a retreat for House and Senate GOP members being held in Philadelphia. Many are hoping he fills in the blanks of a congressional agenda that is expected to include the repeal and replacement of the Affordable Care Act, a nationwide infrastructure investment plan; and funding for the wall at the Mexican border. 
A list of priority projects for the Trump administration, derived from a wish list U.S. governor's compiled last year, was reported Wednesday. Improvements to the Lake Pontchartrain Causeway were in that number, but local and national officials acknowledge the White House has not brought forward ideas on paying for these big-ticket transportation projects. 
In that vein, some Republicans in Congress do not anticipate the president providing much in terms of specifics when he speaks at the retreat. "I wouldn't expect any nitty-gritty," Rep. Chris Collins (R-New York) told the Washington Post. "It'll be top-line. He'll say he's working closely with Pence and the leadership." 
Copyright, 2017, Times -Picayune. All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Greg LaRose, NOLA.com, 'Tracking Trump: 6 things New Orleans needs to know', Times-Picayune, The: Web Edition Articles (online), 26 Jan 2017 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1622AC2A578D1938 
