That story of man using cats' names to vote 5 times? It's a hoax, clerk says 
October 28, 2016 | Times-Picayune, The: Web Edition Articles (New Orleans, LA) Section: Politics 
369 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
On Thursday (Oct. 27) , someone posted on Facebook a phony news story reporting that a Covington man had been arrested for voting five times during this week's early voting period. Supposedly he accomplished the feat by using fake names, including those of his pets. The story even carried a picture of the alleged perpetrator, and "quoted" St. Tammany Parish Clerk of Court Melissa Henry. 
As the post was shared on Facebook, an astute reader might have recognized it as a hoax. But Henry said those reading only the headline might have been fooled into thinking it was real: "Covington man arrested for vote fraud. Voted 5 times using his cats' names." 
Facebook 
On Friday, Henry issued a statement to dispel the story and assure the public that the St. Tammany voting process is designed to prevent such an incident. Presidential candidate Donald Trump brought the general issue of voter fraud to the surface with assertions that his race against Hillary Clinton could be "rigged" against him. 
"In an election cycle as rancorous as this one, with advance allegations of vote tampering, a 'rigged' election and faulty voting machines, this hoax only propagates a distrust of government, of our electoral process and of my office," Henry said. "The public needs to be assured that our elections division staff is highly trained and our process is secure." 
Henry said anyone trying to vote several times would be quickly identified and dealt with appropriately. And she said the Facebook poster might be subject to legal action. 
"I don't know who is responsible for this hoax, but I will be speaking with our attorney about this libelous action --a joke that maligned the character of my deputy clerks and myself and called into question the integrity of the voting process in St. Tammany Parish," Henry said. "We are not amused." 
Henry said anyone with legitimate complaints about voting irregularities is encouraged to call her office at 985.809.8700 and to report such issues to elections commissioners at polling locations. 
Early voting for the Nov. 8 presidential election continues through Tuesday at three locations in St. Tammany: 
* 
The Towers Building in Slidell 
* 
The St. Tammany Courthouse in Covington 
* 
The Parish Government Complex on Koop Drive near Mandeville. 
Copyright, 2016, Times -Picayune. All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'That story of man using cats' names to vote 5 times? It's a hoax, clerk says', Times-Picayune, The: Web Edition Articles (online), 28 Oct 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1604FDBBE8C8AC80 
