Donald Trump to ask for 'major investigation' into voter fraud 
January 25, 2017 | Times-Picayune, The: Web Edition Articles (New Orleans, LA) 
Author: Carlie Kollath Wells, NOLA.com 
Section: Politics 
276 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
President Donald Trump on Wednesday (Jan. 25) tweeted he would ask for a "major investigation" into voter fraud that could be used to "strengthen up" voting procedures. The statement came the day after his administration repeated unsubstantiated claims that millions of people voted illegally during the 2016 presidential election. 
He did not give details about the scope of the proposed investigation or what changes he would like to see made in the voting process. 
I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and.... 
--Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017 
even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time). Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures! 
--Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017 
While Trump won the Electoral College and thus the presidency, Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton surpassed him in the popular vote, earning at least 2 million more votes than Trump. Soon after the results were announced, Trump alleged --without evidence --that rampant voter fraud had occurred. 
"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally," Trump tweeted in November. 
That accusation --spread by conspiracy sites such as Infowars.com and discredited by several fact-checking organizations --gained traction among some far-right conservatives disappointed that Trump lost the popular vote. 
The Washington Post contributed to this story. 
Copyright, 2017, Times -Picayune. All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Carlie Kollath Wells, NOLA.com, 'Donald Trump to ask for 'major investigation' into voter fraud', Times-Picayune, The: Web Edition Articles (online), 25 Jan 2017 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/162259146D4B3700 
