
Mike Pence tells Reno Republicans to be vigilant during election
Newspaper October 21, 2016 | Las Vegas Review-Journal (NV)
Author: SANDRA CHEREB LAS VEGAS REVIEW-JOURNAL CAPITAL BUREAU Section: Elections, Politics, TopNews 473 Words
Page: A017
Mike Pence tells Reno Republicans to be vigilant during election
RENO — Mike Pence urged Republican faithful in Reno to be vigilant during the upcoming election and said GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump reserves the right to legally challenge the outcome “in the case of questionable results.”

“The American people deserve a fair and honest election,” Pence told about 400 people who turned out to hear the vice presidential nominee at the Reno-Sparks Convention Center.

While he said the Republican ticket would accept the outcome of the election, he added, “We also reserve the right to contest and file a legal challenge in the case of questionable results.”

Tweet1 Obamacare tweet

He urged supporters to talk to neighbors and be aware during voting.

“Vigilance is the price of freedom,” he said, adding, “Don’t kid yourself. Voter fraud is real.”

Federal and state election officials this week said instances of voter fraud are rare.

The Indiana governor campaigned in Reno a day after Trump faced off with Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton in their third and final presidential debate Wednesday night in Las Vegas.

During one debate exchange, Trump did not commit to accepting results of the election, saying, “I will tell you at the time.” Clinton called his statement “horrifying.”

Appearing at a rally in Ohio Thursday, Trump jokingly said, “I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election — if I win.”

Pence hit familiar campaign themes in his 40-minute speech in Reno to a crowd of largely mature voters and declared Trump won the debate “hands down.”

“Donald Trump’s vision and leadership won that debate,” he said.

Pence criticized Clinton on national security, the economy and integrity, calling her out for donations to the Clinton Foundation and relationships she made as secretary of state.

“We’re going to drain the swamp of these conflicts of interest and pay-to-play,” Pence said, adding, “It all comes to an end when Donald Trump becomes president of the United States.”

One of the biggest ovations came when he declared, “We’re going to repeal Obamacare lock, stock and barrel.”

Pence said the country “cannot have four more years of apologizing to our enemies and abandoning our friends,” and said a Trump presidency would work to rebuild democracy and “hunt down and destroy ISIS and its source.”

“Now this movement is coming together, Nevada is coming together,” Pence said as the crowd cheered.

Later in his speech he returned to Nevada and its importance in the election as a swing state.

It was Pence’s second trip to Nevada. Trump, Clinton and her running mate, Virginia U.S. Sen. Tim Kaine, have all made multiple swings through the Silver State.

“Nevada, let’s just decide here and now that Hillary Clinton will never be elected president of the United States,” Pence said.

Early voting in Nevada begins Saturday and runs through Nov. 4.

Contact Sandra Chereb at schereb@reviewjournal.com or 775-461-3821. Follow @SandraChereb on Twitter.
Copyright (c) 2016, Las Vegas Review-Journal
