Trump pumps up two key pipelines -Comey safe, trio on list for Supremes 
January 25, 2017 | Boston Herald (MA) 
Author: CHRIS CASSIDY 
Section: News 
370 Words 
Volume: 35 
Issue: 25 
Page: 22 
OpenURL 
Link 
President Donald Trump continued wiping out key elements of former President Obamas legacy yesterday, signing executive actions to advance the Keystone XL and Dakota Access oil pipelines. 
From now on, we are going to start making pipelines in the United States, Trump said from the Oval Office, referring to a provision requiring U.S. steel be used in the construction. 
The Obama administration had effectively halted both projects, so Trumps actions represent a reversal and yet another signal of sweeping change in Week One. 
Trump has already signed executive orders aimed at repealing Obamacare and abandoning the Trans-Pacific Partnership  both key Obama deals. 
It was another busy day at the Trump White House, but much of it was overshadowed by the presidents assertion that he lost the popular vote to Hillary Clinton only because of millions of votes that were cast illegally. News organizations have blasted the Trump administration for not providing any evidence of voter fraud that would back up such a claim. 
Other highlights yesterday included: 
 
Trump will reportedly keep on FBI Director James Comey, who is under investigation by the Justice Department Inspector General for his handling of the Clinton email probe. Trump, as president, has the power to fire Comey, but it has only happened rarely throughout the bureaus history. 
 
The president also met with the CEOs of General Motors, Fiat Chrysler and Ford, urging them to keep jobs in the U.S., while pledging to ease regulations and taxes on the companies. 
 
And he has narrowed the Supreme Court nominees to replace the late Justice Antonin Scalia to a list that includes Neil Gorsuch of the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Denver, Thomas Hardiman of the Third Circuit in Philadelphia, Raymond Kethledge of the Sixth Circuit in Cincinnati, and William Pryor of the 11th Circuit in Atlanta, according to the Wall Street Journal. An announcement is expected next week. 
Herald wire services contributed to this report. 
 chris.cassidy@bostonherald.com 
Copyright (c) 2017 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
CHRIS CASSIDY, 'Trump pumps up two key pipelines -Comey safe, trio on list for Supremes', Boston Herald (online), 25 Jan 2017, 35 (25) 22 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/162245520D26F180 
