N.C. GOP HQ ATTACK AN ACT OF POLITICAL TERRORISM 
October 17, 2016 | Boston Herald (MA) 
Author: JACK ENCARNACAO 
Section: News 
436 Words 
Volume: 34 Issue: 291 Page: 4,5 
OpenURL 
Link 
A county Republican headquarters in Hillsborough, N.C., was firebombed overnight Saturday, an attack that a party official called political terrorism  just the latest attack on the GOP in an increasingly ugly campaign season. 
Police said a bottle of flammable liquid was thrown through the front window of the office in Hillsborough, a town in Orange County near Raleigh. 
Nazi Republicans get out of town or else was spray painted on the side of an adjacent building. 
In Orange County, home to the University of North Carolina in nearby Chapel Hill, Democrats and independents outnumber Republicans 5 to 1. 
Hillsborough police and the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives were investigating. 
Dallas Woodhouse, executive director of the state Republican Party, called the bombing political terrorism. 
The office itself is a total loss. The only thing important to us is that nobody was killed, and they very well could have been, Woodhouse said. Whether you are Republican, Democrat or Independent, all Americans should be outraged by this hate-filled and violent attack against our democracy.  Everyone in this country should be free to express their political viewpoints without fear for their own safety. 
Yesterday, the Bangor Daily News in Maine reported that about 20 cars were vandalized with spray paint outside a Saturday rally for GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump. 
Violence has broken out with protesters at several Trump rallies. 
This is exactly how nasty this election has become, GOP operative Ford OConnell said. The Democrats want to make it look like if Donald Trump wins, apocalypse is upon us. 
He added the Democrats arent exactly condemning it. 
Meanwhile, Trump surrogates accused Democrats of systematic voter fraud in some of the largest U.S. cities. 
They leave dead people on the rolls, and then they pay people to vote for those dead people four, five, six, seven, eight, nine times, former New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said on CNNs State of the Union yesterday. Dead people generally vote for Democrats. 
Giuliani and former House speaker Newt Gingrich singled out Philadelphia as a particular hotbed of cheating. To suggest that we have, you dont have theft in Philadelphia is to deny reality, Gingrich said on ABCs This Week. 
OConnell said voter fraud fears  often downplayed by Democrats  are a legitimate concern. 
We check less than 1 percent of all votes cast. All you need is 250,000 votes spread out over four or five states and thats going to decide who the next president of the United States is. 
Hes spotlighting a real issue, while simultaneously trying to fire up his base because hes had a rough three weeks, OConnell said about Trump. 
 jack.encarnacao@bostonherald.com 
Copyright (c) 2016 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
JACK ENCARNACAO, 'N.C. GOP HQ ATTACK AN ACT OF POLITICAL TERRORISM', Boston Herald (online), 17 Oct 2016, 34 (291) 4,5 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16014B3074A77E00 
