Trump hits back, claims millions voted illegally 
November 28, 2016 | Boston Herald (MA) Author: KIMBERLY ATKINS 
Section: News 
420 Words 
Volume: 34 Issue: 333 Page: 5 
OpenURL 
Link 
WASHINGTON  President-elect Donald Trump  now being urged to launch his own recount bid in states Hillary Clinton barely won  has revived a favorite campaign theme of a rigged election as he faces challenges from Green Party candidate Jill Stein and the Democrats for states that went his way. 
Trump initially blasted Clinton for backing Steins successful bid for a recount of votes in Wisconsin, and ongoing efforts for new tallies in Michigan and Pennsylvania. 
He posted several comments on Twitter yesterday morning using Clintons earlier admonitions about refusing to accept election night results against her. 
But by afternoon, Trump began making his own claims of voter fraud. 
In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally, Trump tweeted, without providing evidence for the claim. 
Conservative blogger Glenn Reynolds, the University of Tennessee law professor who runs the popular site Instapundit.com, is advocating a retaliatory recount campaign in states where Clinton won with margins that were slim or much smaller than predicted. 
I dont see why Trump will want to leave these initiatives to the Democrats, Reynolds told the Herald. There are several states where he lost by very close margins. There is no reason why he shouldnt contest the votes in places like Virginia, New Hampshire or Minnesota. Then the Democrats will actually have skin in the game. 
Clintons victory in New Hampshire  as well as Democratic Gov. Maggie Hassans win unseating GOP Sen. Kelly Ayotte  are likely safe as the deadline to request a recount has passed, despite Clintons razor-thin margin of just under 2,800 votes. 
But strategists said Clinton could face other reprisals from Trump for pursuing recounts, including the reversal of his decision not to pursue criminal charges against her. 
Trump announced last week hes not going to pursue the Clinton case, said Democratic strategist Brad Bannon. Once he said that, he lost the biggest stick he had. ... But Donald Trump is going to do what Donald Trump wants to do. 
Some Democrats, including former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean, who is running to reclaim his former 
position as chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said more recount bids challenging Trump victories could also be forthcoming. 
I think you are going to see more of this, Dean said yesterday on MSNBC. I give credit to Jill Stein, who was not particularly helpful during the general election, because apparently she wants an honest election, and I think thats pretty important. 
 kimberly.atkins@bostonherald.com 
Copyright (c) 2016 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
KIMBERLY ATKINS, 'Trump hits back, claims millions voted illegally', Boston Herald (online), 28 Nov 2016, 34 (333) 5 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160F265FA6516ED8 
