WHIPPING UP rigged rhetoric -Trump vows to sue sex assault accusers 
October 23, 2016 | Boston Herald (MA) 
Author: LAUREL J. 
SWEET 
Section: News 
417 Words 
Volume: 34 Issue: 297 Page: 7 
OpenURL 
Link 
Donald Trump is ramping up his claims that the presidential election has been rigged against him and is now vowing to sue the 11 women who have emerged in recent weeks to accuse the Republican nominee of sexually assaulting them in the past. 
Isnt it amazing they said there is no voter fraud? Trump asked a fired-up crowd during a stump speech in the battleground state of Ohio yesterday, where a recent analysis by Real Clear Politics shows him holding a narrow lead over Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. 
Its a rigged system and rigged election! he shouted, whipping his supporters into a frenzy. 
Also yesterday, Trump announced that he is planning on filing a lawsuit against every woman who has accused him of sexual assault or other inappropriate behavior, calling them liars whose allegations he blamed Democrats for orchestrating. 
All of these liars will be sued once the election is over, Trump said during a stump speech in Gettysburg, PA., adding later, I look so forward to doing that. 
The brash Manhattan billionaire, who took the stage in Pennsylvania to lay out a to-do list for his first 100 days in office, also vowed to lift restrictions on domestic energy production, label China as a currency manipulator and renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement if he is elected. 
This is my pledge to you, and if we follow these steps, we will once again have a government of, by and for the people, Trump said, invoking a phrase from President Abraham Lincolns Gettysburg Address. 
But shortly after his pledge to sue his accusers, an 11th woman, 42-year-old Texas-born porn star Jessica Drake, held a press conference with celebrity attorney Gloria Allred to say a married Trump offered her $10,000 and a ride on his private jet at a golf tournament in Lake Tahoe, Calif., 10 years ago if shed sleep with him She said she declined. 
Allred was an elected California delegate for Clinton at the Democratic National Convention. 
Trump previously denied the other 10 womens allegations  even insisting some of his accusers werent attractive enough for him to pursue. 
Every woman lied when they came forward to hurt my campaign, he said yesterday. 
Trump didnt go into detail about what kind of lawsuits he planned to file against the women. He also said he will enact a freeze on hiring new federal workers and a two-year mandatory minimum sentence for immigrants who re-enter the U.S. illegally after being deported a first time if hes elected to the Oval Office. 
Herald wire services contributed to this report. 
Copyright (c) 2016 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
LAUREL J. SWEET, 'WHIPPING UP rigged rhetoric -Trump vows to sue sex assault accusers', Boston Herald (online), 23 Oct 2016, 34 (297) 7 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160399F249FCD6C8 
