Almost half of Republicans fear election-rigging 
October 22, 2016 | Boston Herald (MA) 
Author: CHRIS CASSIDY 
Section: News 
422 Words 
Volume: 34 
Issue: 296 
Page: 9 
OpenURL 
Link 
Nearly half of Republicans will have doubts about the outcome of the election if their candidate doesnt win, according to a new poll  another sign that Donald Trumps cries of widespread voter fraud and rigged systems could seriously undermine a Hillary Clinton presidency. 
Some 45 percent of Republicans said they will not accept the results of the election if Trump loses, compared to 16 percent of Democrats, according to an NBC/Survey Monkey poll released yesterday. 
Trump vowed to keep the nation in suspense about whether he would accept the Nov. 8 election results during Wednesdays debate, after weeks of railing against what he considers a corrupt media, a rigged election system and faulty polls. 
Another poll, by Reuters/Ipsos, showed Trump gaining on Clinton. The former secretary of state still held a 44-40 percent lead this week, but that was down from the same survey the previous week that had her up by 7 points. 
Make no mistake, by doing that, he is threatening our democracy, Clinton said at a rally in Cleveland yesterday. We know in our country the difference between leadership and dictatorship, right? 
The Clinton campaign is hoping to take the contested election strategy off the board by building big wins in key states and delivering a solid political mandate. She will hold a rally in Manchester, N.H., Monday with Massachusetts U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren. 
The New York billionaire scheduled a blistering seven rallies in five states over three days, beginning yesterday, and vowed to keep battling until Nov. 8. 
I dont want to think back, If only I did one more rally, I would have won North Carolina by 500 votes instead of losing it by 200 votes,  Trump said. I dont know what kind of shape Im in, but Ill be happy. 
Also yesterday, Vice President Joe Biden got down and dirty, suggesting hed like to challenge Trump to a schoolyard brawl over his caught-on-tape groping comments  using the kind of violent rhetoric that usually lands the casino and real estate mogul in hot water. 
The press always asks me dont I wish I was debating him, Biden said of Trump. No, I wish we were in high school. I could take him behind the gym. Thats what I wish. 
The vice presidents apparent wish to inflict bodily harm on the Republican nominee comes amid long
standing Democratic accusations that Trump has incited violence at his rallies, and runs counter to first lady Michelle Obamas claims that when they go low, we go high. 
 chris.cassidy@bostonherald.com 
Copyright (c) 2016 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
CHRIS CASSIDY, 'Almost half of Republicans fear election-rigging', Boston Herald (online), 22 Oct 2016, 34 (296) 9 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160399F02959C508 
