trump PROTEST COULD THROW WRENCH INTO HILL CORONATION 
October 21, 2016 | Boston Herald (MA) 
Author: CHRIS CASSIDY 
Section: News 
612 Words 
Volume: 34 
Issue: 295 
Page: 4,5 
OpenURL 
Link 
Donald Trumps doomsday vow to keep the nation in suspense over whether hell concede defeat on Election Day could undermine Hillary Clintons presidency out of the gate, riling up skeptics and doubters against what would already likely be a compromised commander in chief. 
It does make it more difficult for her to govern, obviously, if he pushes this issue, because given what it looks like in the polls and given the distrust, shes likely to go in, if she wins, with no honeymoon period, said Robert Oldendick, a political science professor at the University of South Carolina. Certainly it has long-term implications  unless shes able to get 350 electoral votes or a massive mandate. 
Trump again suggested yesterday hed challenge the countrys 215-year-old peaceful transfer of power, joking at a rally in Ohio hed agree to the outcome, under one condition. 
I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election  if I win, he said. 
But Clinton, asked on her plane after the debate whether she would accept the results, only lashed out at Trump for not committing to it. President Obama yesterday called Trumps comments not a joking matter. 
Trump has raised the prospect of faulty polls, a pro-Clinton media and a rigged election system in recent weeks. At a rally in Colorado on Tuesday, he suggested voter fraud would occur in Philadelphia, Chicago, St. Louis and so many other places. 
That may be a strategy to fire up his base and ensure they vote on Election Day, or an effort to put pressure on the Clinton campaign to win by enough of a mandate that claims of fraud wont matter. 
Trump also is said to be considering his own news network, Trump TV, a possible primitive version of which streamed on Facebook Live just before the debate Wednesday night. 
But even Republicans doubted that blaming an allegedly tainted voting system would broaden Trumps base or gain him more points in polls. 
Talking about a rigged system  does nothing to bring independents or women toward him, said Republican operative Patrick Griffin. It doesnt expand his base. It doesnt invite new people in. He has the hard support of the same people who have always been his supporters. 
Larry Sabato, a political science professor at the University of Virginia, said: One things for sure  this is no way to try to win an election. If Clinton wins by a wide margin, that alone dampens any effort by Trump to cry foul. It would be laughed out of the public square. 
Trumps own supporters claimed his comments are meant to protect himself against a repeat of 2000, when Al Gore conceded, then un-conceded and contested the results against George W. Bush. 
Trump would bow out gracefully if he loses fairly, said state Rep. Al Baldasaro, a Trump New Hampshire co-chairman. 
He would thank and compliment Hillary for winning because hes an honorable guy, said Baldasaro. Hes about America. This isnt about Donald Trump. 
But Griffin remained befuddled as to what the billionaire is thinking with less than three weeks to go and serious ground to make up. 
Im confounded of any sense of thoughtful consideration for some strategic goal here, said Griffin. I am puzzled. I dont know what hes doing. I never have and, particularly now, dont understand it. 
 chris.cassidy@bostonherald.com 
Copyright (c) 2016 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
CHRIS CASSIDY, 'trump PROTEST COULD THROW WRENCH INTO HILL CORONATION', Boston Herald (online), 21 Oct 2016, 34 (295) 4,5 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16029C97514088D0 
