Follow the rules and elect to keep things fair 
November 7, 2016 | Boston Herald (MA) 
Author: HOLLY ROBICHAUD 
Section: News 
422 Words 
Volume: 34 
Issue: 312 
Page: 16 
OpenURL 
Link 
Is our election system rigged? 
Here in Massachusetts, state Rep. Stephen Smith (D-Everett) was convicted of voter fraud. So it does happen. Everyone needs to do their part to ensure the integrity of our elections. Dead people are not supposed to 
vote. As they say at the airports  if you see something, say something. What should you be looking for? Campaigning within 150 feet of the polling place is strictly prohibited. That means no campaign T-shirts 
or buttons are to be worn within the polling place. Volunteers cannot hand out fliers or hold signs within 
150 feet. Watch out for the dirty trick of campaigns leaving literature in the voting booth, including pens with a candidates name on them. 
Ballots are never to leave the polling place even if the machine has a problem. 
All campaigns should be at their polling places before they open to make sure that all ballot boxes are empty and that the machine reads zero. Voters are allowed to bring a cheat sheet with them, but they are not allowed to have a ballot already 
filled out. Voters are allowed to bring a helper, but the poll watchers must ask them if they need help and who they 
would like assistance from. Voters dont have to take help from someone who drove them to the polls. They can choose anyone. People may be required to show identification if the poll worker believes that the voter is not the person 
on the voter list. For example, if a millennial tries to take out a ballot in a 90-year-old persons name, the poll worker can ask for identification. Inactive voters must show identification to vote. Campaign poll observers are allowed to video every person entering the polling place. However, they 
cannot tape the actual voting. It is best to notify your local election board before setting up a camera. 
Cellphones are allowed for campaign poll observers, but they cannot talk on them. All texting has to be silent as well. That worker cannot use the phone for pictures. 
Outside of the polling place, watch out for people changing their clothes in the parking lot and going back in to vote. Also, the handing out of envelopes to people who have voted tends to be illegal. 
Who do you report violations to? Each polling place has a warden. If the warden refuses to address the situation, report it to your city or town clerk. If all else fails, call the secretary of states office. 
Protect the value of your vote by doing your part for voter integrity. 
Copyright (c) 2016 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
HOLLY ROBICHAUD, 'Follow the rules and elect to keep things fair', Boston Herald (online), 7 Nov 2016, 34 (312) 16 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16083A690A080DE0 
