The Donald could drag contest into December with challenge 
October 21, 2016 | Boston Herald (MA) 
Author: BOB McGOVERN 
Section: News 
513 Words 
Volume: 34 
Issue: 295 
Page: 5 
OpenURL 
Link 
Donald Trump could tie up the election into December if he doesnt accept the results and launches a series of long-shot legal challenges in key battleground states. 
If there is a multi-state challenge in four or five states at the local level, the thing could drag out for a while, for at least several weeks, said Kenneth A. Gross, a former Federal Election Commission lawyer. Courts, however, will be mindful of the unrest it causes, not only in the United States, but across the world. 
Trump, who has taken the unprecedented stance of calling the election rigged, has several options should Hillary Clinton win the day on Nov. 8. He can petition individual states to recount the ballots  an expensive maneuver that only matters in jurisdictions that dont have automatic recount procedures in close elections. 
Even when its a recount by request, the results have to be very close. Its the same in states with automatic recounts, said Troy McCurry, a former FEC attorney. A lot of the states that have recounts by request, it has to be paid for by the candidate, and there is a specific timeframe. 
Thats where the battleground states come into play. 
Iowa, Nevada, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Virginia and Wisconsin do not have automatic recounts, but Trump can request one. Colorado, Florida, Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania, meanwhile, have automatic recounts when the results are close, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. 
After a recount, Trump can challenge those results. His attorneys could also challenge the election as a whole, arguing that there was voter fraud or even push the dubious case that the media helped sway the whole thing. 
But, while anyone can file a complaint with the courts, you need to have a leg to stand on. 
The general statements he has been making dont  by themselves  serve as a basis to challenge an election, said Larry Noble, former general counsel of the FEC. You need something more specific. You need a serious claim. 
If Trump cites issues with ballot counts, it will go to the state court in the jurisdiction where the alleged controversy occurred. Other Hail Mary claims could end up on the federal side. 
The gears of justice could prevent Clinton from taking a victory lap for weeks, but most experts agree that Trumps potential legal gambit would be cleared from the docket by Dec. 19  the day when the electors who serve on the Electoral College will meet to select the next president and vice president. 
In the only modern example, the U.S. Supreme Court moved quickly and sorted out the Al Gore vs. George W. Bush controversy on Dec. 12, 2000. 
The courts are extremely sensitive to the timing of the transition of power, and they arent going to let it drag on more than that, Gross said. We saw it drag out during Bush vs. Gore, and the Supreme Court was divided then, but it came down with a decision. 
In the off chance Trump vs. Clinton does go all the way to the hobbled, eight-judge Supreme Court, this bizarre election could rival 2000. 
 bob.mcgovern@bostonherald.com 
Copyright (c) 2016 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
BOB McGOVERN, 'The Donald could drag contest into December with challenge', Boston Herald (online), 21 Oct 2016, 34 (295) 5 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16029C974C671450 
