Obama warns The Donald to stop bullying -Hints at political activism 
January 19, 2017 | Boston Herald (MA) 
Author: KIMBERLY ATKINS 
Section: News 
439 Words 
Volume: 35 
Issue: 19 
Page: 6 
OpenURL 
Link 
WASHINGTON  In his last press conference in office, President Obama gave a little advice to the man following him into the Oval Office  along with a parting promise. 
The first bit of counsel to President-elect Donald Trump was given indirectly, but with crystal clarity: Quit bullying the press. 
Acknowledging that he too has been miffed by some of his press coverage, Obama told reporters gathered in the White House press room: having you in this building has made this place work better. 
That was a clear dig to the Trump transition teams plans to boot White House reporters from the premises  plans Trump scrapped because, he told Fox News yesterday, The press went crazy, so I said, Lets not move it.  
Obama reminded the press, and Trump by extension, Youre not supposed to be sycophants. Youre supposed to be skeptics. Youre supposed to ask me tough questions  America needs you, and democracy needs you. 
Obama served the next tip straight, with no cagey chaser. 
This is something I have told him: This is a job of such magnitude that you cant do it by yourself. You are enormously reliant on a team  and not just those who agree with you, Obama said. 
And, Obama warned, bawdy rashness may work in a campaign, but on the world stage it could be disastrous. 
The actions that we take have enormous consequences and ramifications, Obama said, referring to the Mideast conflict. 
I think it is right and appropriate for a new president to test old assumptions and re-examine the old ways of doing things, he said. But if youre going to make big shifts in policy, just make sure youve thought it through You dont want to do things off the cuff when it comes to an issue this volatile. 
Then came the promise: Obama may be leaving the White House, but hell return to the political sphere when he believes our core values may be at stake. 
He ticked off a list of potential triggers: systemic discrimination, suppression of the press and civil rights issues like voter access. 
We are the only country in the advanced world that makes it harder to vote, and not easier, Obama said, decrying gerrymandering and restrictive voting laws passed in the name of guarding against voter fraud. 
Obama put a fine point on it, using one of Trumps new favorite phrases: This whole notion of voting fraud, this is something that has constantly been disproved. This is fake news. 
 kimberly.atkins@bostonherald.com 
Copyright (c) 2017 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
KIMBERLY ATKINS, 'Obama warns The Donald to stop bullying -Hints at political activism', Boston Herald (online), 19 Jan 2017, 35 (19) 6 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16204A148504BAA0 
