Dems push back on GOP voter fraud claims 
November 2, 2016 | Detroit News, The (MI) 
Author: Jonathan Oosting 
Section: News 
343 Words 
Page: A9 
OpenURL 
Link 
Lansing  The Michigan Republican Party said Tuesday its "massive statewide anti-voter fraud" plans were developed independent of the national GOP, which Democrats are accusing of minority voter intimidation in concert with Donald Trump's presidential campaign. 
A federal judge on Monday ordered the Republican National Committee to detail efforts Michigan GOP Chairwoman Ronna Romney McDaniel first outlined in an Oct. 10 fundraising email to supporters, including any geographic areas that will be targeted. 
New Jersey District Judge John Michael Vazquez, an appointee of Democratic President Barack Obama, called for the unusual disclosure by Wednesday. 
The Democratic National Committee claims the RNC is violating a decades-old consent decree prohibiting the Republican organization from working directly with the Trump campaign on "ballot security" endeavors because of past poll watching practices. 
"Trump has falsely and repeatedly told his supporters that the November 8 election will be 'rigged' based upon fabricated claims of voter fraud in 'certain areas' or 'certain sections' of key states," said a complaint filed last week, alleging a joint effort to intimidate black and Latino voters. 
Romney McDaniel said last month in a fundraising email the state party plans to dispatch more than 100 attorneys to polling locations across the state on Election Day to "catch and discourage instances of voter fraud." 
The DNC court complaint notes Romney McDaniel's fundraising plea was sent 10 days after Trump urged Michigan supporters to be on the lookout for election rigging on Nov. 8. 
"Make sure everything is on the up and up," Trump said Sept. 30 in Novi. "So go to your place and vote. And go pick some other place and go sit there with your friends and make sure it's on the up and up. Because you know what, that's a big, big problem in this country and nobody wants to talk about it." 
Michigan Secretary of State Ruth Johnson, a Republican, has expressed "full confidence" in the state's decentralized election system, which is conducted by 1,603 municipal clerks in cities, villages and townships using paper ballots that are scanned into a machine. 
Chad Livengood contributed 
(c) 2016, The Detroit News. All rights reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Jonathan Oosting, 'Dems push back on GOP voter fraud claims', Detroit News, The (online), 2 Nov 2016 A9 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1606C0146E9579E0 
