News@noon:Round 3 on tap for Clinton-Trump 
October 19, 2016 | Detroit News, The: Web Edition Articles (MI) Author: The Detroit News 
Section: news 
751 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Today is Wednesday, Oct. 19, 2016, and it's almost Friday, right? Right?!?!? 
Here's what's happening on this hump day, which found law-enforcement officers dominating the headlines in Metro Detroit, and will end with the third and final presidential debate between Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton and Republican candidate Donald Trump. 
Will you be watching tonight when the action starts at 9 p.m.? If so, what will you be watching for? 
Round 3 
Clinton and Trump will meet again Wednesday night in Las Vegas to cap what's been a heated presidential-debate series. Clinton comes into the debate heavily favored to win the Nov. 8 presidential election, according to prognosticators. Trump comes in needing a momentum-changer to turn the headwinds in his favor.A Bloomberg Politics poll has Clinton owning a 9-point advantage. According to Bloomberg, "support for Trump among critical groups of voters, including men and the less educated, has weakened in the campaign's closing days, a trajectory that could translate into a landslide loss for Republicans in the Electoral College and setbacks in down-ballot races that will determine control of the House and Senate."Meanwhile, the Michigan director for Trump's campaign defended the candidate's controversial claims of "voter fraud" and election "rigging" that will benefit Democrat Hillary Clinton on Nov. 8. 
Tough week for Detroit police 
Six Detroit police officers are suspended after the FBI opened an investigation into shady towing practices, George Hunter reported. Long story short, the officers are accused of participating in an effort to steer business to towing operators, who are themselves accused of offering the officers bribes. Police are seeking a 25-year-old Detroit man who they say threw cinder blocks and fired shots at them following a Wednesday morning domestic disturbance. Detroit police say Keith Deshawn Montgomery is considered armed and dangerous and should not be approached by civilians. 
Riverfront help 
On a recent clear fall day, reporters went on a boat tour of the industrial parts of the Detroit and Rouge rivers to make the argument that the industrial riverfront remains essential -and also in need of urgent investment. That includes tax money, officials contend. 
Tigers changing stripes? 
Change could be in the air for the Tigers this offseason. General manager Al Avila says the Tigers "need to get younger, leaner."Avila was simply confirming what already was known, writes Lynn Henning. 
Peppers for Heisman? 
University of Michigan football player Jabrill Peppers fills a number of roles on all three sides of the ball for the Wolverines --offense, defense and special teams -and does them so well that his coach, Jim Harbaugh, has pushed publicly for him to receive consideration for the Heisman Trophy. But at the midseason point, with Illinois set to come to the Big House on Saturday in hopes of ruining Homecoming weekend, Peppers is taking that talk with a grain of salt, reports Angelique Chengelis.Meanwhile, rival Michigan State has dropped four straight games, unprecedented within Mark Dantonio's tenure as head coach. With its bye week already past and games each weekend through the end of the season, the Spartans are hoping that a back-to-basics approach will get the 2-4 team back on the winning track, Matt Charboneau reports. With games against highly favored Michigan and Ohio State on the schedule, MSU needs to figure things out quickly as they travel to the East Coast to face the 4-2 Maryland Terrapins, coached by former Jim Harbaugh and Urban Meyer assistant DJ Durkin. 
Detroit News at noon is a daily roundup of the most talked-about stories on detroitnews.com. For more anytime, like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter, Instagram (@detroitnews), Snapchat (Search for "Detroitnews") and LinkedIn. 
(c) 2016, The Detroit News. All rights reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
The Detroit News, 'News@noon: Round 3 on tap for Clinton-Trump', Detroit News, The: Web Edition Articles (online), 19 Oct 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/176821D1D76019B0 
