
From Milwaukee County to Madison, Scott Walker's rise marked by union battles - How his time in Milwaukee County propelled him to Act 10 and holds insights for politics today.
Newspaper November 27, 2016 | Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Web Edition Articles (WI)
Author: Dave Umhoefer Section: Special-Reports 11688 Words
From Milwaukee County to Madison, Scott Walker's rise marked by union battles - How his time in Milwaukee County propelled him to Act 10 and holds insights for politics today.
When Gov. Scott Walker and Republican lawmakers passed Act 10 in 2011, it dramatically reduced the power and influence of unions representing teachers and most other public employees in the state.

Later, they passed similar limits against private-sector unions.

This six-part series examines a critical period in Walker's career with an eye toward better understanding what led him to seek curbs on unions.

How did Walker, one of America's most conservative state lawmakers, break through and thrive as leader of Democrat-friendly Milwaukee County from 2002 to 2010?

What made him, in 2011, so eager to take on the state's public employee unions and so certain of his path in the face of intense opposition and massive protests?

Was the citizen anger that propelled Walker to Milwaukee County's top job a precursor of the tea-party movement and the success of Donald Trump in the 2016 election?

The story begins with Walker's entry into the Milwaukee County executive's race amid a searing pension scandal that opened the door for a fresh face.

Chapter One: A scandal and an opportunity

Chapter One: A scandal and an opportunity

In 2001, his 10th year as Milwaukee County's elected executive, Tom Ament looked like a lifetime lock.

A gray-faced Courthouse insider educated in accounting, Ament had little stage presence considering the drama he'd soon create.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Milwaukee County Executive Tom Ament, followed by his wife, Darla Hium, turns to leave a news conference after announcing his resignation Feb. 26, 2002.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Milwaukee County Executive Tom Ament, followed by his wife, Darla Hium, turns to leave a news conference after announcing his resignation Feb. 26, 2002.

His mumbled interviews, even when transcribed, were hieroglyphic imponderables.

It mattered little; "county" was a sprawling but sleepy government that attracted little public notice.

Left to its own devices, Ament's left-leaning administration got greedy, bestowing a raft of pension and pay goodies on themselves and their employees in a manner that busted the county budget.

Hundreds stood to get six-figure retirement payouts atop generous monthly pensions. For a few higher-paid public servants the lump sum topped a cool million.

No one seemed sorry.

Ament's trifling response when the scheme was unmasked — "I deeply regret the furor" — stirred a thunderous outcry typified by a brief typewritten letter: "Down With The King!"

That missive was among hundreds that flooded Ament's office as reporters discovered outrage (automatic pay raises every term for elected officials) after outrage (retirees cashing in unused sick days for $25,000, $50,000, even $185,000).

But the anger would dim, right?

It always did in Milwaukee, where incumbent pols often went unchallenged for generations and stayed well past their expiration dates.

But highly taxed Milwaukee County was rich soil for a citizen's revolt, even a moral crusade. And, it turned out, was receptive like never before to an ambitious outsider.

'Recall capital of the world'

For decades, in the city's working-class south suburbs, a band of good-government gadflies honed the art of taking down elected officials.

Weapon of choice: recalls.

Gather enough signatures and force an election for any reason. Recalls begat recalls of the recallers in a bitter cycle.

"We used to joke that Franklin was the recall capital of the world," said activist Orville Seymer.

Seymer and other recall warriors spilled forth in January 2002 after the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel began reporting on the extravagant Ament pension deal.

They offered their arcane skills to a suburban Brown Deer social club talking about a recall.

Thus was born a true grass-roots powerhouse, Citizens for Responsible Government, or CRG.

Seymer was an early member, as was Chris Kliesmet, a slightly built, mustachioed software consultant whose father Ament had helped unseat as sheriff.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Scott Walker, then a Republican state representative from Wauwatosa, turns in his nominating petitions to get on the ballot for the April 2, 2002 primary for Milwaukee County executive.

Photos: Scott Walker uses recall as springboard to governorship

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Scott Walker, then a Republican state representative from Wauwatosa, turns in his nominating petitions to get on the ballot for the April 2, 2002 primary for Milwaukee County executive.

Kliesmet's taste for the jugular was underlined by his spiel to groups planning recalls:

"We're about to give you a high-powered rifle. If you have any reservations about putting the cross hairs on the forehead of your target and squeezing the trigger, leave the room now, because you don't want to shoot to wound."

In the dead of a Wisconsin winter, the CRG team marshaled battalions of volunteers against Ament. Defying all predictions, they collected an astonishing 180,000 signatures in a mere 28 days.

Once certified, the petitions meant Ament would stand in a recall election.

A restless politician

Scott Walker was pining to move beyond the state Assembly after eight years in a safe GOP seat in Wauwatosa, one of Milwaukee's near west suburbs.

In years past, Walker had resisted friends' suggestions to take on Ament, a Democrat in the technically nonpartisan county executive post. At one point he even endorsed Ament.

This time, surprising even those closest to him, he said he might get in.

Late in the recall drive, Walker signed a petition and took to conservative talk radio shows to join the county bashing.

The time seemed right for a man who saw God's hand in his political career, an Eagle Scout who pledged morally straight living.

From the time he was a boy in his father's Baptist church, Walker had searched for a mission, mindful of Llew Walker's words from the pulpit: I was ordained, but all are called to be ministers.

His leadership stood out in scouting, and at the American Legion's Badger Boys State in high school, winning him a trip to Boys Nation in Washington, D.C. during Republican President Ronald Reagan's presidency.

It showed him the path to service could be through politics.

"I really think there's a reason why God put all these political thoughts in my head," Walker said in his early 20s.

The county pension scandal gave Walker a chance to do good — and step forward at a time when Milwaukee's secular and Catholic leadership was in full moral meltdown.

In 2002, there was Ament, of course. Milwaukee's longtime Democratic mayor, John O. Norquist, admitted an affair with a staff member that led to a sexual harassment settlement that ended his political career. Archbishop Rembert Weakland soon would retire after $450,000 was paid to silence claims he had sexually assaulted a former theology student.

"It gave him this moral place," Kliesmet said. "Why should we have this super class of people for whom we are paying for something we would never get?"

Investing in Walker

At the county Courthouse, Ament resisted entreaties from local Dems to quit.

Republican elements, meanwhile, "saw Scott as an investment in where they were going," said Vi Hammelman, a Republican strategist.

Walker jumped in first.

When Ament finally resigned, the seven-week sprint to the primary was on.

Walker was 34, and looked younger. He had little management experience as he sought to run a $1 billion enterprise.

He was best known outside Wauwatosa, if at all, as a tough-on-crime lawmaker and TV pundit on conservative Charlie Sykes' Sunday talk show.

He would face, among others: Tom Nardelli, an alderman from Milwaukee, who also had no administrative experience: Jim Ryan, who directed a social service agency helping children; and Tyrone Dumas, a former county public works director.

"I thought Tom Nardelli had the better chance at the time because he was closer to the city," said Kliesmet. "And Jim Ryan had a strong liberal following."

Local unions immediately opposed Walker as extreme and anti-Milwaukee.

In the Legislature, he'd fought a higher minimum wage, opposed more public transit and backed ending parole. Walker had supported a bill to give management better odds when labor disputes were arbitrated.

In the crowded primary field, Walker downplayed party and forcefully positioned himself as a change agent.

His volunteers covered the county with a simple "3 things in 30-days plan," spelled out on a magnet: slash my pay; force department heads to reapply; try to make the County Board of Supervisors part time.

"Put it up on your 'frigerator," Walker said in a folksy campaign TV ad.

Walker committed to take a $60,000 pay cut, from $132,000 to $72,000, to gain the moral authority to ask other county workers to sacrifice. He opposed easier access to concealed weapons permits, contrary to his past stance, as he tried to broaden his countywide appeal.

Many political insiders still figured on Nardelli, the crusty alderman backed by the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees council, a union representing thousands of county and city employees.

Scott vs. Gentleman Jim

On primary election day, April 2, Walker finished with 37%, ahead of Ryan at 27%. AFSCME had whiffed: Nardelli drew just 18% and then quickly endorsed Walker.

Now it would be Walker's aggressive reform message vs. the gentlemanly Ryan, 58.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Milwaukee County executive candidates (from left) Victor Huyke, Jim Ryan, Scott Walker and Thomas Nardelli listen as Tyrone Dumas speaks at a March 9, 2002 forum organized by the Black Citizens for Responsible Government.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Milwaukee County executive candidates (from left) Victor Huyke, Jim Ryan, Scott Walker and Thomas Nardelli listen as Tyrone Dumas speaks at a March 9, 2002 forum organized by the Black Citizens for Responsible Government.

Ryan hailed from the south-suburban heart of the Ament recall campaign.

But Walker had a fundraising head start and hundreds of $10, $15, $20 givers ("Mom" was one listed occupation; "retiree" described many).

Other money came from deep pockets. Walker's vocal support of tax payments for private schools won him max-out donations from Wal-Mart heir John Walton, one of the richest men in the world and a strong supporter of voucher schools.

Though Walker initially backed Elizabeth Dole for president in 2000, he later chaired George W. Bush's 2000 campaign in Milwaukee County. That and White House ties through his campaign treasurer John Hiller attracted donations from Texas CEOs from companies such as Circuit City.

Prominent Wisconsin givers included Michael Grebe, a national GOP player and new head of the conservative Bradley Foundation in Milwaukee.

Anti-abortion advocates pitched in big; Walker's support of their cause dated to his Marquette University years in the late 1980s.

Walker audaciously pushed an insider-outsider narrative.

He highlighted Ryan's service as a part-time village president and former Milwaukee County Board member.

Walker portrayed himself as a regular citizen with only a passing interest in politics. Won't serve past 2008, he said.

"I don't have an interest in running beyond that," he said in 2002. "I certainly didn't grow up wanting to be county executive."

In fact, Walker said in high school he'd run for Congress someday and had volunteered on Republican Gov. Tommy Thompson's 1986 campaign as a freshman in college.

Walker said he was obsessed with politics while at Marquette, quit school for a job, then jumped into a long-shot Assembly race at only 22.

He had worked only briefly outside government and had already run a state Republican Party convention by his 30th birthday.

"Walker was sharper, battle-tested, better with sound bites, and knew how to focus voter anger," Ryan's campaign manager Patrick LeSage said.

"A springboard to governor"

After stating for months it would not endorse, Citizens for Responsible Government rocked the race late.

"During the debates it became clear to us Walker could win, and it would be a big deal nationally, and could be a springboard to governor," CRG spokesman Bryan Olen said in an interview.

Some around Walker were so impressed with his campaign they started to see him as presidential timber.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Alex Walker, 6, photographs his father, Scott Walker, being sworn in May 9, 2002 as Milwaukee County executive. Milwaukee County Circuit Court Chief Judge Michael Skwierawski administers the oath. Walker's wife, Tonette, holds the Bible.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Alex Walker, 6, photographs his father, Scott Walker, being sworn in May 9, 2002 as Milwaukee County executive. Milwaukee County Circuit Court Chief Judge Michael Skwierawski administers the oath. Walker's wife, Tonette, holds the Bible.

"We talked about it," recalled campaign worker Vicky Ostry. "We believed it."

Walker had allies inside CRG, including Stan Zurawski and Seymer, a former Ament Democrat and ironworker who now owned rental properties. Seymer's intensity and passion for citizen-led government turned off some, but Walker always heard him out, and Seymer never forgot it.

CRG asked each candidate to support 10 moves that would save taxpayers money. Walker didn't hesitate; Ryan haggled with CRG leaders before losing it.

"I'm running for county executive not county king!" Ryan bellowed to the group before storming out, LeSage recalled.

A new political force

AFSCME interviewed both men. Walker promised he wouldn't be a big privatizer of county services.

But they were oil and water. Local labor groups charged that recall fever was a plot to "destroy all public services." As a state lawmaker, Walker had tried to clamp down on unions' ability to funnel members' dues into political campaigns.

So AFSCME backed Ryan.

Labor's earlier choice of Nardelli, a pick AFSCME leader Rich Abelson later admitted had been "terrible," hadn't worked.

Neither would its backing of Ryan.

Walker took 55% of the vote in a county where two years earlier George W. Bush hadn't managed to get 40%.

Walker nearly swept the suburbs, beat Ryan in his home base, and even managed 48% in the City of Milwaukee, a Democratic stronghold.

"Walk-er! Walk-er! Walk-er!" his backers chanted at his party before a band swung into "Roll Out the Barrel."

Ryan drew comfort from campaign adviser Dennis Conta before conceding.

"It could have been worse, Jim," Conta suggested. "You could have won."

Chapter Two: A new boss, a new era

Chapter Two: A new boss, a new era

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker (right) and Jim Villa, Chief of Staff, work out strategy during a meeting in the County Executive's offices at the Milwaukee County Courthouse December 31, 2002.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker (right) and Jim Villa, Chief of Staff, work out strategy during a meeting in the County Executive's offices at the Milwaukee County Courthouse December 31, 2002.

The County Courthouse staff didn't exactly hail the chief when Scott Walker took charge in May 2002, the first outsider and first Republican to lead Milwaukee County.

"Skippy," as the rank and file soon christened him, inspired a brew of suspicion, snickers and scorn.

"A good newscaster," one union chief said.

Walker "will get a spanking" if he fights the legislative branch, promised longtime County Board member Lee Holloway, who soon became chairman.

Their swagger didn't last long. County Board members were stunned as voters upset over their support of a budget-busting pension scheme recalled seven from their ranks of 25, in some cases with backdoor Walker help.

Many longtime county employees expected the unproven but ambitious 34-year-old to overreach or soon extricate himself from the county government quagmire by running for higher office.

He promised he'd only run once for re-election.

But soon after the recall results, hundreds of county workers retired early, with their pensions and buyouts, fearing Walker would wipe out their jobs or — even worse — rescind their lucrative lifelong benefit packages.

The notorious deal that drove longtime County Executive Tom Ament from office didn't just massively boost pensions and invent a cash payout for those working past their early retirement eligibility.

It also boosted wages 12% over four years, tacked on huge cash credits for banked sick leave days and added a sixth week of vacation after 20 years.

People were walking away with outstanding monthly pensions plus lump sums of $50,000, $100,000, $500,000 and even $1 million.

A highway maintenance worker, for example, got a $307,000 lump sum plus a $27,900 annual pension. An administrator at the county Mental Health Complex got $684,000 plus a $43,839 pension. A deputy district attorney's lump sum was $976,499 plus nearly $73,000 a year for life.

The payments epitomized the courthouse's entitlement culture.

County beaches were polluted and largely left untended; county buildings were falling apart.

The public safety net protecting people in one of the nation's most impoverished areas was fraying despite big property tax hikes and a new sales tax.

But Ament and his clique found enough cash to hand managers two pension-enhancing raises a year, including a supposedly merit-based 5% — "just for breathing the air," as one exasperated county official said.

Many got free lifetime health care. Nepotism ran wild. Some had taken lavish junkets.

The ride was over.

A man of 'strong faith'

Walker didn't rush to drain the swamp. First he tested the temperature.

He dumped only one department head, a shirttail relative of Ament's, after learning that most top managers had expensive severance deals. He kept Ament's tricked-out county van, dubbed "Van Force One" by Walker's staffers.

He ended the practice of shaking down county managers for campaign cash.

He surprised courthouse veterans with his management savvy. In cabinet meetings, Walker took copious notes and solicited opinions.

With reporters, the new exec — he preferred plain old "Scott" — made himself available daily and answered questions, in microscopic policy detail, until they ran out of things to ask.

With aides, Walker was guarded outside the circle he brought in from Madison. He was all business and totally dialed-in to calculating the political costs of his actions, county officials said.

"He doesn't lift the veil," said Donald Natzke, who directed the county Office for Persons with Disabilities under Walker.

As Walker settled in, visitors to his office — lobbyists, county contractors, business and civic leaders — discovered he had an unapologetic certainty and a gift for diplomacy even in disagreement.

At the time, one of his 2002 campaign rivals, African-American leader Tyrone Dumas, lauded Walker's "strong faith and principles that involve the human spirit and a love for all people."

'A show of good faith'

The new boss even enjoyed a honeymoon phase with the old bosses — organized labor.

His office lobbied the County Board alongside the unions on some mutual interests. Walker kibitzed at AFSCME's offices, the union's leader, Rich Abelson, recalled.

"Everybody thought I was going to come in here and blow up the place," Walker teased as he built a rapport ahead of 2004 labor talks.

Then came a stunner.

AFSCME had filed a grievance against the county under Ament, saying he had put union-level jobs in management to get around hiring rules. In August, Walker dropped the county's defense against their grievance.

The move greatly swelled the union ranks and made hundreds of workers eligible for parts of the retirement deal that had been stripped from non-union workers after the scandal.

Perhaps Walker was just cutting his losses ahead of an arbitrator's ruling, but Abelson saw more.

"It was a show of good faith," Abelson said. "He said it was sneaky, what Ament had done."

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker greets President George W. Bush (center) as Gregory Gracz, president of the Milwaukee Professional Firefighters hugs Secretary of Health and Human Services Tommy Thompson at the airport. The visit was on Oct. 3, 2003.

Photos: A new era begins as Scott Walker becomes county executive

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker greets President George W. Bush (center) as Gregory Gracz, president of the Milwaukee Professional Firefighters hugs Secretary of Health and Human Services Tommy Thompson at the airport. The visit was on Oct. 3, 2003.

Some saw in Walker a surprising naivete.

"It's like Father Flanagan," recall leader Chris Kliesmet said. "Walker believed there are no bad boys."

Walker was no political innocent though.

Capitalizing on his Bush White House connections, Walker held two Chicago fundraisers, one featuring Bush strategist Karl Rove.

An official at investment banking firm Bear Stearns with ties to Walker helped with the fundraising, which came just a month after the firm won work on a $100 million county bond refinancing. (The firm was a huge player in the public sector across Wisconsin on similar deals.)

When Walker administration officials told a Journal Sentinel reporter they had lost or destroyed all notes from the Bear Stearns deal, local prosecutors began criminal investigations.

The records were quickly found after a story appeared in the newspaper about them being missing.

At the time, Walker was considering hiring a new firm to advise the county pension fund on financial matters. Donors at the Chicago events included those looking for the business.

Walker met during the fundraising trip with officials from a firm Bear Stearns was pushing for the job, then collected a $2,500 campaign gift from the spouse of an executive at the firm.

It came out later, in emails, that a Bear Stearns official was in discussions with top Walker staff members about his picks for the county's Pension Board, which oversaw the investments.

A county audit found that Bear Stearns' bid should have been tossed for vagueness, but found no improprieties. Prosecutors backed off.

Needed concessions

Walker's outreach to labor was no accident.

He couldn't balance county budgets, freeze taxes and trim labor costs, as he had promised, without getting concessions from unions representing 80% of the county's 7,000-strong workforce.

The massively generous benefits were an inside job masterminded by management, which benefited personally from them, and later handed to the unions, unsolicited. Why would they voluntarily give them up?

Another reality was labor's vise grip on county government.

Former union leaders held key leadership spots on the County Board or, under Ament, had top jobs in the administration, even running labor negotiations. In some respects, labor had been on both sides of the bargaining table.

Still, management was considered the enemy of the unions, per rank and file sentiment.

Even rumors of sharing a golf game with a manager could get a union leader sideways with workers, one local leader said.

Incumbent County Board members feared getting a union-sponsored challenger in the next election and facing labor's get-out-the-vote machine. Their most vocal constituents were union members.

Rob McDonald was one of the conservatives ushered onto the County Board in the wave of recall elections.

He quickly noticed that employees active in union leadership had exalted status around the County Board offices.

"It felt like they worked there, like they were (board) staff," said McDonald, whose car had a vanity license plate that read: TAX H8R.

"Supervisors' first loyalty was to the County Board, then to employees, then to taxpayers, then to the public at large," said former Supervisor Roger Quindel, a liberal Democrat.

'You're gone, you're history!'

Abelson, like Walker, had success early.

Both men believed their side was morally superior. Both were inspired by labor strikes.

There the similarities ended.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker begins the first of 10 public hearings on the county budget at the Northwest Senior Center. This one was held in August 2003.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker begins the first of 10 public hearings on the county budget at the Northwest Senior Center. This one was held in August 2003.

Abelson rose from Chicago's south side, the son of a tinsmith who died young. That left Abelson's mother to raise the family.

Steeped in the women's movement and civil rights principles, Abelson told the story in a union newsletter of how he helped AFSCME organize a union at a private dormitory where he worked as an undergraduate on the University of Illinois campus.

After a quick strike, the workers got a contract. Abelson was an organizer and member of the union's negotiating team.

He later earned a master's degree in industrial relations at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, then staffed AFSCME offices in Wisconsin and Illinois.

Abelson was used to getting his way. His insults and threats sometimes stung even allies in labor and on the County Board.

"You're dead! You're gone! You're history!" County Supervisor Lynne DeBruin recalls Abelson telling her in one dispute, as he threatened to use union clout to unseat her in the next election.

Walker's backstory differed in key respects.

He was reared in small Midwestern towns. His mother, Pat, did bookkeeping and wrote a newspaper column. His father, Llew, a Baptist minister, drew inspiration from the 1960s civil rights movement and met the Rev. Martin Luther King Sr. But Scott was a Cold War kid, taken with Ronald Reagan's patriotism and his firing of striking air traffic controllers when they launched an illegal strike.

In Walker, Abelson had a quiet but determined adversary.

"I've watched him when huge men would pound their fists on the table and threaten, and he wouldn't even break a sweat," Abelson said.

Union critics castigated Walker as coldhearted — accusations that his allies said hardened his anti-union views.

Walker typically refrained from responding in kind.

He was virtually immovable once he made a decision, though his habit of head-nodding often left the misimpression he agreed.

'What a lousy deal'

The image of easygoing Scott lingered for several months.

He compromised with Holloway, the County Board chairman, on shrinking the board from 25 members to 19, rather than reducing pay and responsibilities for all supervisors to part-time levels.

Walker had campaigned on a 70% pay slice for board members. That was one of the three promises on the campaign magnet.

In his first budget, Walker cut just 35 jobs and avoided most privatization. He was still able to get his promised zero-tax increase.

Walker reduced funding for drug and alcohol treatment for the poor, breaking a campaign vow to ministers to hold funding steady.

"He lied!" activists with the Milwaukee Innercity Congregations Allied for Hope chanted during a protest in his outer office. "He lied!"

Walker went after the Sheriff's Office, a courthouse sacred cow that had been recently taken over by fellow conservative David A. Clarke Jr., who labeled Walker's budget dangerous.

No money, Walker said, for an AIDS prevention program that gave clean needles to drug users.

Some cuts were mainly symbolic: He nixed tax dollars for the water coolers and reduced jail inmates' allotments for aspirin and newspapers.

Then, Walker put once-comfortable County Board supervisors in the bull's-eye on the budget.

He incited protests to board members by encouraging blistering criticism on conservative talk radio. A mysterious front group, later tied to the GOP and big business, aired misleading radio ads warning voters about a massive tax hike that no one was proposing.

Board members carped about the killer instincts beneath Walker's nice-guy image.

"This is like the McCarthy era!" Holloway complained.

Walker budget gimmicks would mean red ink early in 2003, supervisors predicted.

But the board came close to enacting the executive's tax freeze.

Walker declared victory.

Chapter Three: Who will blink first?

Chapter Three: Who will blink first?

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Joe Hooper ( left) and Harold Beckham, both Milwaukee County Parks maintenance employees, react to the honks of passing cars during a rally Sept. 9, 2003, outside the Milwaukee County Courthouse to protest Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker's lay off of county workers and plans to privatize park services. Walker announced 280 layoffs effective in mid-September to help close a 2003 budget deficit.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Joe Hooper ( left) and Harold Beckham, both Milwaukee County Parks maintenance employees, react to the honks of passing cars during a rally Sept. 9, 2003, outside the Milwaukee County Courthouse to protest Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker's lay off of county workers and plans to privatize park services. Walker announced 280 layoffs effective in mid-September to help close a 2003 budget deficit.

The summer of 2003 was the beginning of the end of Scott Walker's surprising honeymoon with big labor at Milwaukee County.

As critics foresaw, the exec's first county budget hit tilt just a few months into the year.

Walker declared a crisis and sought a new round of cuts, mindful of his campaign promise to shrink the county workforce.

At a meeting called to gather ideas for emergency reductions, union leaders felt Walker ignored their suggestion of rolling, voluntary layoffs.

Voluntary givebacks weren't going to be nearly enough, Walker said.

His idea was to temporarily trim workweeks to 35 hours. Under that plan, employees might suffer a 12% pay cut for five weeks one year. For the next year, he was considering pay cuts for up to 20 weeks.

"When the meeting got a little tense, he became more defiant," recalled Patty Yunk, an AFSCME leader.

Walker recalled that union leaders dug in their heels. They were "not giving up any of the lavish benefits they enjoyed in order to save someone else's job."

Walker knew that under collective bargaining rules that had been agreed to by his predecessor, he needed union approval for a shortened workweek.

So he made clear the alternative would be hundreds of layoffs — and he promised to tell workers any job losses were their union's fault.

That teed off AFSCME's Rich Abelson, who saw Walker's layoff threat as blackmail.

Why not ask private companies under contract with the county to sacrifice instead of county workers? Or promise no layoffs if labor agreed to shorter workweeks?

In his 2013 biography "Unintimidated: A Governor's Story and a Nation's Challenge," Walker recalled sitting across from Abelson in the county executive's office and walking through the layoff scenario.

"He looked me in the eye and said, 'Go ahead and do it!" Walker wrote. Abelson denies it.

The two men failed to reach a deal.

A throng of union workers and their allies on the County Board rallied at the Courthouse, denouncing "Walker's lies" about cutting fat. It was the kind of tactic that had worked time and again in the past.

Even Citizens for Responsible Government, the recall group that had helped put Walker in office, complained that he was sparing management from the cuts.

Walker didn't hesitate to make the layoffs.

In all, he pink-slipped 280, including workers in parks, social services, corrections, custodial, security and support staff.

In his book, Walker would write that public-sector unions were an "absolutely ridiculous" notion. He called them unelected dictators feeding off taxpayer-funded salaries to get dues payments they used to pressure government for higher salaries and spending.

To trusted aides, emails showed, Walker once passed around a list he found of the "Top ten ways to tell if you might be a member of a public-sector union."

Number 3: You spend more time at protest marches than at church.

Number 8: You get paid twice as much as a private sector person doing the same job but make up the difference by doing half as much work.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

County workers and others gather outside the Milwaukee County Courthouse on Sept. 9, 2003 to protest Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker's plan to layoff of county workers and privatize some park services.

Photos: Scott Walker has a showdown with county leaders

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

County workers and others gather outside the Milwaukee County Courthouse on Sept. 9, 2003 to protest Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker's plan to layoff of county workers and privatize some park services.

Abelson began to portray Walker's motives as sinister.

Walker's real agenda was eliminating family-sustaining jobs through sweetheart deals with private companies, Abelson told workers at the Courthouse protest.

After the layoffs, mowing of the grass in county parks slowed to a three-week rotation. With half the custodial staff gone, tumbleweeds of trash swirled in Courthouse hallways.

Judges scrubbed toilets in their jury rooms.

Partly in reaction to criticism over targeting front-liners, and protecting managers, Walker engineered a made-for-TV head-rolling. He abruptly fired his management crew at the Parks Department when a heat wave left kids without pools after emergency funding cuts — reductions Walker himself had approved.

In Walker's view, Abelson was willing to sacrifice jobs and services to the citizens in order to preserve lucrative benefits for workers with seniority.

Walker said he found himself laying off crying young workers who begged him to try furloughs.

"It's not for me to reconsider — go talk to your union steward, go talk to union leadership," he told them.

Abelson and Walker barely spoke for the next seven years.

Taxpayers over 'faceless' bureaucrats

Since he was finishing Tom Ament's term, Walker would stand for re-election in early 2004, just a year after the layoffs and service cuts.

And before election day, he would unveil more grim budget moves, including the highest bus fares in America.

Walker repeatedly blamed the sorry state of county finances on Ament's malfeasance.

He called for sacrifice and noted his own self-imposed salary cut.

And in a page from Ronald Reagan, he put forth flesh-and-blood winners from the tax freeze.

The choice is paying for more "faceless government bureaucracy" or "siding with overburdened property-tax payers" like Bob Bitters, Walker said in the fall of 2003, when rolling out the budget for the next year.

Bitters, who had handed Walker his tax bill during the 2002 campaign, was laid off from a steel plant at one point in his life.

"As a common man, I thought it was unusual to see a politician who says 'I can get by with less salary,'" Bitters said of his support for Walker.

Employees were livid over Walker's "faceless" bureaucrats line.

One wrote to Walker after the exec praised a manager for erasing "needless bureaucratic work" by leaving a position unfilled.

The retiring children's court worker who held that job, Maurice Miller, wrote that the agency was already understaffed, putting in doubt the proper supervision of juvenile offenders released in the community.

"I see your view of life as being, 'If something costs less it has to be a better thing,'" he wrote.

Walker — always most animated when talk turned to frugality — was tapping into Milwaukee's vaunted thrift.

"When people here complain there isn't parking, it's not because there's no open spot," said business leader Tim Sheehy, a strong Walker supporter. "It means there's no spot with time left on the meter."

With the election approaching, the County Board was agreeable to austerity.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker (left) shares a light moment with challenger David Riemer during a during a March 27, 2004 forum at St. Matthews C.M.E. Church in Milwaukee.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker (left) shares a light moment with challenger David Riemer during a during a March 27, 2004 forum at St. Matthews C.M.E. Church in Milwaukee.

Rather than boost taxes, the board tapped surpluses and raised fees to restore Walker's cuts to homeless shelters, courts, disability aid, university extension and witness protection.

Bus riders weren't thrilled. The two-year tally under Walker was 12 bus routes lost, 10 more trimmed.

But property tax collections would actually fall a bit, a huge win for Walker.

In the end, he signed the budget without issuing any vetoes.

In the spring election, he faced well-connected David Riemer, a top budget aide to Gov. Jim Doyle and Milwaukee Mayor John Norquist, both Democrats.

Riemer, a Harvard-educated Democrat, had won national acclaim on welfare reform and anti-poverty tax policies.

His negatives as a campaigner: He was a policy wonk, not a baby-kisser. He also entered the race late, only after others showed little interest in taking on Walker.

And who should come along to deny Riemer support?

Abelson, the union chief.

Despite its loathing of Walker, AFSCME's leaders remembered past battles with Norquist and Riemer at City Hall.

So the pivotal union refused to endorse in the 2004 county executive's race.

Riemer emptied his playbook, knocking Walker as a friend of the rich, a flip-flopper, a failed reformer.

His campaign revealed that Walker had neglected a promise that his office aides waive eligibility for pieces of the Ament pension deal.

Walker didn't rattle.

He ripped Riemer as a liberal spendthrift.

He made a special effort to reach out to African-American voters, aligning with black county supervisors and Marvin Pratt, an alderman vying to be Milwaukee's first elected black mayor.

By the numbers, Walker's April 2004 triumph was impressive.

In notching a 14-point win, he lost but one suburb and even eked out a win in the City of Milwaukee, where seven months later the Bush-Cheney ticket would get a measly 28%. In the city's African-American wards, he drew 42% of the vote.

The lesson: Belt-tightening was a ballot-box hit.

With the momentum came confidence, as Walker began planning a bid for governor — and more.

"The rest of the state — and indeed, the nation — are watching to see the direction we take over the next few months and years," Walker said at his May 3, 2004 inaugural.

Laying down a marker for Abelson, Walker said any deal starting in 2005 would have to repeal the Ament benefits as much as legally possible.

The unions, he predicted, would agree to "revolutionary" changes.

Chapter Four: Eyes on a bigger prize

Chapter Four: Eyes on a bigger prize

Beyond an occasional "God bless you" or a pledge to read more of his Bible, Scott Walker was generally circumspect about displaying his steadfast Christian faith on the job at Milwaukee County.

But he sought divine guidance on things political when in private.

By late 2004, not long after winning a full term, he said his prayers convinced him it was God's will that he run for governor.

An unwanted sign from above poured forth in mid-January 2005.

For the second time, water fell from the Courthouse's leaky and neglected roof onto the floor of his executive office.

In truth Walker didn't need a push to plot his exit from a local government that couldn't afford basic repairs.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker (left) talks with Secretary of Health and Human Services Tommy Thompson and Irish Ambassador Noel Fahey at a reception held for Thompson at the Embassy of Ireland in Washington, DC January 18, 2005.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker (left) talks with Secretary of Health and Human Services Tommy Thompson and Irish Ambassador Noel Fahey at a reception held for Thompson at the Embassy of Ireland in Washington, DC January 18, 2005.

He already was tending to state and national ambitions.

The previous summer, he had crisscrossed the state in a self-promotional motorcycle tour with fellow Harley-Davidson riders, a technique first used by Gov. Tommy Thompson.

At the same time, he served as a statewide co-chair for President George W. Bush's 2004 re-election campaign. His duties included stoking fears of voter fraud.

His focus on county matters began to blur, leaving key department head posts unfilled and two straight budgets in deficit. Contract talks with some unions halted at one point for lack of a negotiator.

So dysfunctional was the three-ring circus of Walker, the unions and County Board that Courthouse denizens made up a moniker for the grand workplace with polished-stone floors:

The Marble Big Top.

Strongmen! Watch County Board Chairman Lee Holloway knock colleague Roger Quindel over his desk.

Sideshows! See County Supervisor Toni Clark divert campaign cash for a gambling stash, then sit in jail.

Reformers splinter

Meanwhile, the reform engine was sputtering.

Recallers thought Walker had blown a chance to help elect a reform-friendly County Board majority.

"In the 2004 elections there was no cooperation. They were only worried about Scott," said Vi Hammelman, who ran the campaign that had ousted County Board Chair Karen Ordinans after the 2002 pension scandal.

One of those elected in the board recall, Walker ally Tim Johnson, walked away from politics entirely, calling Walker's tax freeze emphasis a sophomoric campaign gimmick.

"I thought we were going to do something big, decide what we can do really well and cut some services entirely," Johnson told a reporter at the time. "We're just dying a slower death."

Even some business leaders called out the constant cutting as a losing development strategy.

As the pension deal's impact on county finances grew, the County Board rejected most of Walker's moves to privatize various services. It largely restored money for parks, the arts, drug treatment, courts and social programs.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

More than 60 MICAH (Milwaukee Innercity Congregations allied for Hope), and Interfaith Conference of Greater Milwaukee members crowded and prayed in Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker's office Thursday, September 4, 2002. They were demanding Scott Walker restore $1 million of Potawatomi funds to the AODA voucher program.

Photos: Scott Walker eyes the governorship

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

More than 60 MICAH (Milwaukee Innercity Congregations allied for Hope), and Interfaith Conference of Greater Milwaukee members crowded and prayed in Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker's office Thursday, September 4, 2002. They were demanding Scott Walker restore $1 million of Potawatomi funds to the AODA voucher program.

That slowed the shrinking of the government. Property taxes were rising again.

Like Walker's first budget, the second one bled red at year's end, with revenues failing to cover expenses.

The reform movement failed Walker, said Chris Kliesmet, a leader of the Citizens for Responsible Government group.

"When that common enemy was gone," he said, "people said 'Let's go back to what we are.'"

As Walker's gaze widened, he saw a handful of Republican governors clobbering unions.

One was Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels, the former Bush budget chief.

In a move Walker would years later call "a beautiful thing," Daniels was able to unilaterally wipe out collective bargaining by state employees with a 2005 executive order.

Daniels had hesitated at first, envisioning mass protests, Walker later wrote. The mass protests didn't come to pass, but Indiana's unions took a heavy hit: Within five years, union ranks fell by 90%.

Later Daniels said the move allowed hundreds of millions in savings from quick, wide-scale privatization, reorganization, pay freezes and higher health care contributions from workers — things private-sector unions were already familiar with.

In Wisconsin, a county executive such as Walker had no authority to rescind contracts.

But he could send a warning message to the unions.

On Jan. 10, 2005, he asked the Legislature and Democratic Gov. Jim Doyle to let local officials strictly limit contractual pay and benefit increases for public workers.

Walker's request went nowhere, of course.

Two weeks later, he formally announced his run for Doyle's job.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker shows the url of his web site as he kicks off his first campaign for governor January 24, 2004 in front of his home in Wauwatosa.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker shows the url of his web site as he kicks off his first campaign for governor January 24, 2004 in front of his home in Wauwatosa.

A new platform

Walker's time at the Courthouse had been marked by a no-drama style, understated rhetoric and technocratic tendencies.

Now, running for governor, Walker used a campaign blog to criticize union power and what he saw as the undue fringe benefits it promoted.

Liberals in Madison, he complained, wanted medical leave to go nearly as far as "giving an employee the right to take a couple of days off to recover from a hangover."

School employee benefits: "Out of touch with the rest of society."

Higher education administrators: Overpaid.

In a speech, Walker derided the Milwaukee 7, a new, business-led drive to boost global exports and attract industry, as "putting lipstick on a pig." High labor costs in union-heavy Milwaukee, he said, had to be fixed first.

Walker wasn't targeting unions just on policy grounds.

He knew the public sector unions were a driving force statewide for Democratic candidates.

He knew they would attack him using money collected from members' government paychecks.

And they did — through a labor-funded ad buy in the 2006 cycle that tallied $4.6 million, according to the Wisconsin Democracy Campaign.

'A nonstop promotional thing'

There were warning signs for Walker that the Republican establishment preferred Mark Green, a Green Bay congressman also seeking the party's gubernatorial nod.

Walker resisted when some party officials urged him to defer to the slightly older Green.

"It's kind of condescending," he told a reporter. "It's exactly what got us Bob Dole in '96."

Walker couldn't even rely on his talk-radio megaphone in Milwaukee, Charlie Sykes.

"For three years it was like a nonstop promotional thing" for me, Walker told a reporter. "Charlie now is being very cautious to play it even."

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Congressman Mark Green (right) listens to Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker endorse him as the Republican candidate for governor during a news conference March 27, 2006 in West Allis.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Congressman Mark Green (right) listens to Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker endorse him as the Republican candidate for governor during a news conference March 27, 2006 in West Allis.

By necessity, Walker positioned himself as the underdog against Green.

Again he moved to reinvent himself, this time as a Madison outsider despite his own state legislative background.

He crammed campaign trips into his schedule, exhibiting a "live the job" drive.

"It's like a good salesperson," remarked Kliesmet. "All his friends are his clients. His hobbies are playing golf so he can play golf with his clients. He buys a boat so he can take his friends who are his clients out."

The Marble Big Top, of course, didn't close down while Walker campaigned. The trapeze-like highs and lows at the Courthouse provided campaign fodder for both Walker and his foes.

The Journal Sentinel found that county caseworkers regularly sent mentally ill clients to dangerous housing. Walker later approved new housing units, working with Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett despite their poor relationship.

A move with County Board Chair Lee Holloway blocked what Walker's administration called rampant fraud in a medical care program for uninsured poor. Walker squeezed millions from hospitals to spare the program from cuts.

'Thou Shalt Not Speak Ill'

Walker the candidate was confronting Ronald Reagan's "Eleventh Commandment":

"Thou shalt not speak ill of any Republican."

His hero's example influenced most of who he is, Walker has said. He even married Tonette Schleker on Reagan's birthday.

The Walkers serve Reagan's favorite macaroni and cheese and patriotic colored jelly beans every year on that date.

"A cab driver could tell you his ideas," Walker said admiringly in February 2015, praising the simplicity of Reagan's message based upon "the most profound of ideas."

Would Walker, child of the party, stray from Ronnie's rule?

By early 2006, Walker had traveled the state for 14 months and raised $1 million.

He began painting Green, a fellow Republican who shared most of his policy views, as a captive of Washington.

Then Walker pulled off a rarity in politics — a surprise ending.

In late March 2006, in a speech at a Republican event at a Waukesha hotel, he pulled the plug.

"After a great deal of prayer during the past week, it is clear that it is God's will for me to step out of the race," he said, ending a 14-month run. He blamed lagging fundraising and a desire to avoid an intraparty fight.

After his brief speech, Scott and Tonette melted away to a restaurant with volunteers.

"It was a time to grieve. We didn't understand why this happened," recalled Vicky Ostry, a campaign worker.

"There'll be another time," a pensive Walker said. "Now we have to help Mark Green."

Maybe Walker knew something Green didn't.

Even with lots of help from Walker, the congressman fell to Doyle. Democrats rode a national wave as voters expressed anger about where the country was going with wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and disastrous federal rescue efforts in the wake of Hurricane Katrina.

Democrats won both houses of the state Legislature, too. They controlled state government in Wisconsin.

But that wouldn't last long.

Chapter Five: A battle over bargaining

Chapter Five: A battle over bargaining

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

A large VETO sign rests against a wall of the Italian Community Center during a "CRG" Citizens for Responsible Government, "Veto Super Rally", November 13, 2009. The rally was intended to send a message to the County Board to uphold Walker's anticipated veto of tax increases proposed by the board.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

A large VETO sign rests against a wall of the Italian Community Center during a "CRG" Citizens for Responsible Government, "Veto Super Rally", November 13, 2009. The rally was intended to send a message to the County Board to uphold Walker's anticipated veto of tax increases proposed by the board.

Labor leaders watched in wonder as some of their own members began to flock around Scott Walker at county employee picnics.

One high-ranking labor boss even ponied up for Walker's campaign.

Most of the union brass couldn't stomach that Walker might be winning voters on the substance of his actions. That left style as their only explanation.

Even Walker allies agreed he had a winning persona as county executive.

Hispanic business leader Maria Monreal Cameron was among those who praised him despite occasional differences.

"Scott has always been a caballero, a gentleman," said Monreal-Cameron, who led the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of Wisconsin. "He made you feel like you were the most important person in the world with the most important issue."

She's still a fan today despite her deep disappointment in Walker backtracking from his support for a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants. She is a first-generation American, born of Mexican parents who met in a Texas cotton field.

Recall leader Chris Kliesmet saw shades of motivational speaker Tony Robbins in Walker.

"You get people to follow you and do things not so much by the facts, but the way you make them feel," Kliesmet said.

But the labor heads saw a darker side.

One American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees official, David Eisner, said Walker used his choir-boy charm and aura of Eagle Scout innocence to hide his blind ambition.

Kurt Zunker, who led an AFSCME local, thought Walker was attractive to union members who had a "white privilege mentality."

Many younger white workers, Zunker said, resented union-backed seniority rules and legal decrees that gave promotion and hiring advantages to racial minorities.

Rich Abelson, Walker's chief antagonist and leader of AFSCME's Milwaukee council, insisted his rival's certainty reflected ignorance.

"It's a gift," Abelson would say.

In Abelson's eyes, Walker was an empty suit doing the bidding of billionaire businessmen, CEOs and conservative ideologues.

Scott Walker had felt underestimated, even demonized, before.

'Staying with the playbook'

In one sense, nothing had changed at the county while Walker concentrated on his 2006 gubernatorial campaign.

There was still no deal with AFSCME, which had been without a contract for two years.

It was a costly delay because the spigot of the giant pension payouts remained open.

While AFSCME and Walker argued, 500 new workers had been hired and became eligible to take part of their pension as a big lump sum if they retired from county and met other rules down the road.

By the end of 2006, eight other county unions had given up the lump-sums for new workers.

AFSCME wanted protections against layoffs and privatization of county jobs in return for new employees not getting the lump-sum option.

Walker wanted much more: a 20% pension cut for existing employees' future years of service. He also sought from AFSCME something else other unions had agreed to: employees paying a greater share of their health costs.

Leaders of smaller unions found Walker fair to work with in negotiations.

"We had great contracts, nothing was eroded," Wisconsin Federation of Nurses & Health Professionals president Candice Owley recalls. "They never even proposed big changes in benefits."

Abelson drew some criticism, even among liberals, for not finding a way to save union jobs.

"The union attitude always has been, 'More and more for fewer and fewer,'" Supervisor Roger Quindel said of AFSCME.

But union critic Kliesmet understood Abelson's stance.

"You can't fault him for staying with the playbook," he said. "You don't change until you have to."

Walker wanted a whole new playbook, even a 401(k)-style system instead of guaranteed pensions, but county supervisors called that an unrealistic ask.

In Madison, Republicans were cool to ideas Walker floated during the 2006 race, including altering state law to allow union contracts to be voided.

"The Legislature can't just wave a magic wand to undo contracts," state Sen. Alberta Darling (R-River Hills) said at the time.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

James Macon with Local 998 Transit Workers Union protests outside a "CRG" Citizens for Responsible Government, "Veto Super Rally", in front of the Italian Community Center November 14, 2009.

Photos: Scott Walker runs for re-election and battles labor

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

James Macon with Local 998 Transit Workers Union protests outside a "CRG" Citizens for Responsible Government, "Veto Super Rally", in front of the Italian Community Center November 14, 2009.

'Gloom and doom'

Determined to find a leverage point, Walker began to lay out what he viewed as the county's desperate financial picture.

Through attrition, layoffs and mass retirements, the employee base was down more than 1,000, or 15%. Even law enforcement ranks were down 10%.

But retirement and health care obligations were still rising, threatening to force deeper service cutbacks.

Walker saw government through a business lens.

He did not want to pass on huge legacy costs to his customers — the taxpayers.

Yet Milwaukee's business establishment was at odds with some of Walker's proposals.

The Metropolitan Milwaukee Association of Commerce had no problem with reining in pay and benefits. But it wanted better public transit to bring workers to jobs, and more county funding to sustain cultural institutions.

"You can't cut your way to prosperity," MMAC head Tim Sheehy said at the time.

Business leaders thought Walker should consider a new tax. But Walker blocked an advisory referendum sought by the County Board on a new sales tax for parks, transit and law enforcement.

The county could do more with less, he insisted.

He'd point to parks director Sue Black, who'd won national praise for restoring life to many attractions with help from private donations and sheer force of will.

On Black's watch, Bradford Beach was rejuvenated, the county built new swimming attractions, the Washington Park bandshell reopened and the Hoyt Park pool was restored.

Walker went ahead with his plan to highlight the county's deep problems. It was risky, because it undermined his narrative of making progress.

Abelson called it a "Gloom and Doom Tour." Walker acknowledged using a worst-case scenario.

In late 2006, after the County Board rejected a privatization plan, Walker moved to hire private contractors anyway, and released a videotape of a custodian sleeping during a shift. AFSCME sued.

The strategy restarted negotiations.

Three days after Christmas 2006, union and county negotiators agreed on a deal covering 2005-'08.

The deal included limits on pension payouts for newly hired workers, but not existing ones.

That partially fulfilled Walker's campaign promise.

The concession came with a price. The county acquiesced to protections against layoffs and privatization, and awarded raises.

Walker didn't think the deal went nearly far enough, but he swallowed it.

Abelson called it a "successful contract." AFSCME members backed it 80% to 20%.

Re-election bid

In winning the county executive job in 2002, Walker had promised that he would serve only one full term, after finishing the last two years of Tom Ament's term. Given that promise, he shouldn't have even been on the ballot in 2008.

Asked about his future after exiting the governor's race, Walker told reporters he'd consider running anywhere there was a leadership gap.

How about GOP Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner's seat?

Sensenbrenner, joshed Walker, "has looked like he's needed to retire physically for the last 20 years."

Walker tried backtracking but got in deeper, saying, "the only way (Sensenbrenner) is leaving the House is in a wooden box."

This was an out-of-character episode.

Walker rarely jested in public and never gossiped with reporters. He was cordial and put people at ease, but wasn't the backslapping or storytelling type.

Such discipline "required an amazing level of calculation and evaluation," said one of Walker's department heads, Don Natzke.

And it worked.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Lena Taylor (right) states that the results would have been different for the election, if she'd had a little more time and a little more money, as she speaks at her post-campaign party. Taylor ran for Milwaukee County e Executive against Scott Walker.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Lena Taylor (right) states that the results would have been different for the election, if she'd had a little more time and a little more money, as she speaks at her post-campaign party. Taylor ran for Milwaukee County e Executive against Scott Walker.

Walker said he still had work to do cleaning up the county, so he was seeking another term.

But with his sights set on higher office, he wanted a convincing re-election win to keep up his momentum.

His foe this time: firebrand state Sen. Lena Taylor (D-Milwaukee), a liberal African-American lawyer.

Walker was vulnerable on several issues.

Security lapses, bad management, poor employee morale and crowded conditions marked the county House of Correction in Franklin and a downtown work-release center. In another episode, a raft of pension overpayments was discovered.

At the time, researchers at Milwaukee's Public Policy Forum were preparing a damning report card that said long-term county solvency was "questionable at best."

All the Band-Aid budgeting had staved off a crisis, but services cuts were indiscriminate, reserves depleted, the Forum reported. Long-term debt had jumped as pension and health costs soared.

Taylor received AFSCME backing but couldn't persuade the state teachers union to go after Walker.

In 24 face-to-face forums with Taylor, Walker stuck to the Ronald Reagan blueprint — keep it simple, repeat it often — and asked voters for more time to fix the county.

In the end, Walker gained ground in the suburbs, pulling 7 in 10 votes. He lost his edge in the city of Milwaukee, but still managed 47%.

Countywide, it was his most dominating win yet, with 59%.

All set up for another run at Madison.

Friday: The candidate readies a bomb aimed at labor. Can they stop him this time?

Chapter Six: A power shift in Madison

Chapter Six: A power shift in Madison

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Scott Walker and family take the stage in victory November 12, 2010 after he won the gubernatorial race. at the Country Springs Hotel in Pewaukee.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Scott Walker and family take the stage in victory November 12, 2010 after he won the gubernatorial race. at the Country Springs Hotel in Pewaukee.

Eighty miles from Madison, Scott Walker had watched Democrats bolstered by union cash sweep to one-party control of the Capitol in November 2008.

He watched them open 20,000 new state jobs on university campuses to union representation, a huge new source of dues money for labor.

He watched them ram through a budget repair bill in 24 hours that boosted taxes and fees on business by $1.2 billion over three years.

Now aiming for the 2010 governor's contest, Walker offered a different path.

State employees should give toward their pensions and pay more of health care costs or face layoffs, like private-sector workers had done. Federal stimulus funds should be shunned because they also increased the burden on taxpayers.

Republicans, he insisted, were not losing because of their views.

Weak messengers delivering a watered-down platform — that was the problem.

"Too many politicians attempt to please everyone and end up disappointing almost everyone," Walker emailed an aide.

This time his campaign got help from high places.

Heading the effort was Michael Grebe, the Republican guru whose Wisconsin-based Bradley Foundation was pouring grants into a national network of groups combating union power.

At the grassroots, the budding tea party movement offered an army of citizens like CRG upset over taxes and President Barack Obama's expensive new federal health care law.

At one tea party rally, Walker told the crowd the new movement looked to him a lot like the Tom Ament recall that put him in office.

He was massaging the history of the recall, placing himself more at the center of it than as beneficiary of a citizen revolt. When Walker said things like, "I was the original tea party in Wisconsin," it rankled one Ament recall leader, Chris Kliesmet.

The Walker record

Walker touted tax relief and smaller government.

He had made headway on holding down taxes in Milwaukee County: The increases under Walker averaged half the Ament-era increases, about 2.4%, lower than inflation.

He claimed a true freeze annually, but in truth that only happened in the first two years of his nine county budgets. And only twice did Walker even propose a levy freeze compared with his own proposal the year before. Walker's claim of freezing taxes was based on him using, as a starting point, the budget the County Board settled on after overriding his vetoes to add more money.

The county workforce under Walker dropped 25%, or 1,700 employees, through attrition, layoffs, privatization and spinoffs.

He touted it as necessary to lower long-term costs, while opponents claimed he'd frayed the social safety net.

One county official who worked in both the Walker and Ament eras said that Ament "would've had to do 95% of what Scott Walker did to balance the budget."

In one case, longstanding lapses at the understaffed county welfare office meant long delays in getting food stamps, health care or even return phone calls.

Democratic Gov. Jim Doyle swooped in, with state takeovers of several county-run welfare programs with poor records.

"The only real losers were the people receiving services," County Auditor Jerome Heer said.

Walker scored management points, though, with a strategy to recoup some of the money from the pension deal that had opened the door for him to become county executive.

After years of making a living blaming predecessor Ament and his cronies for the pension scandal, he eagerly went after a new villain to help the county's bottom line.

He sued the county's actuarial consultant, saying it gave bad advice about the pension deal to Ament and others in 2001. The lawsuit netted a $45 million settlement from Mercer.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Scott Walker dances with his wife, Tonette, at the Inaugural Ball at Monona Terrace in Madison January 3, 2011.

Photos: Scott Walker is elected governor and enacts Act 10

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Scott Walker dances with his wife, Tonette, at the Inaugural Ball at Monona Terrace in Madison January 3, 2011.

'A war with our largest union'

Walker wasn't going to wimp out with labor as he built his résumé for the next gubernatorial run. He was frustrated at having to manage around them.

"We easily could have avoided layoffs, balanced our budget, kept taxes low and delivered better services," Walker would write years later.

Thus began a series of end runs around the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees union, now working with an expired contract.

A string of union lawsuits ensued, followed by a new union label for Walker: "King Scott."

Budget shortfalls, furlough threats, layoffs, stalled talks, court fights, rallies, marches — the cycle accelerated in 2009 and 2010.

Walker distanced himself from the whole idea of negotiating. At times he'd contradict what county negotiators were offering.

"He understood how bargaining works but didn't care," said AFSCME's David Eisner.

Walker's top aide, Cindy Archer, posted anti-union comments and pro-Walker chatter on news websites under the handle "Capt1" during the 2010 governor's race.

"There is no hope for improvement under the current structure and the current cast of players," Capt1 wrote in October 2010.

A few months later she wrote that unions only cared about maximum overtime; keeping slackers, thieves and no-shows on the payroll; and arguing over snow-day pay rates.

Walker went so far as to veto a tentative labor deal between AFSCME and his own county negotiators that traded a wage freeze for guarantees of no layoffs or privatization. He balanced a budget on paper by counting wage and pension concessions that did not exist.

"We are creating a war with our largest union," said Supervisor Lynne DeBruin.

No contract agreement would be reached before the November election for governor.

"We are never going to get (AFSCME's support), so I would furlough the hell out of them," Walker chief of staff Thomas Nardelli wrote in an email.

'Negotiate, don't dictate!'

Walker argued fairness in tough economic times: County employees should accept concessions seen in the private-sector.

He wanted to cut jobs through attrition and reorganization, "not random pink slips."

But labor warned against making lower-paid workers a scapegoat for management's schemes.

"Negotiate, don't dictate!" union members cried at one rally.

Some union leaders argued Walker's delays simply aimed to push off negative effects from his actions beyond the governor's race.

That's just what happened.

The furloughs imposed in the budget later were ruled illegal, resulting in back pay and interest of $6 million to $9 million going to 1,800 employees — about double the original cost.

The race took a twist in late 2009 when Doyle declined to seek a third term.

Unlike in his first bid, Walker was the frontrunner now.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Republican Party candidates for Governor Scott Walker (left) and Mark Neumann, spar during a debate in the WTMJ 620 studio at State Fair Park at noon August 6, 2010.

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files

Republican Party candidates for Governor Scott Walker (left) and Mark Neumann, spar during a debate in the WTMJ 620 studio at State Fair Park at noon August 6, 2010.

He amassed $8 million in campaign cash and dispatched former GOP congressman Mark Neumann in the Republican primary.

Money flowed from tens of thousands of small givers, and from heavyweight business backers including the wealthy Koch brothers, David and Charles of Wichita, Kan., who had fought unions all their lives and whose father had launched "right-to-work" laws in the 1950s.

But Walker's Democratic opponent, Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, had no strong primary opponent and by August had more than twice as much on hand as Walker.

Walker's campaign apparatus was humming, buttressed by his office staff in Milwaukee, which came under criminal investigation during a John Doe probe for mixing political and county work. Staffers used a secret email system that shielded campaign and work emails from the public.

"I just am afraid of going to jail — ha! ha!" office staffer Darlene Wink wrote on the secret server in August 2009.

A top Walker aide, Tim Russell replied, "You wouldn't, not for that."

After the election, Wink received probation for fundraising on county time. Russell got a two-year prison term for stealing $21,000 from an annual county-staffed picnic that saluted veterans and boosted Walker's political profile.

As his campaign for governor gained strength, it looked more and more as if there would be a new union man in Walker's life.

Marty Beil, a big man with a Santa Claus beard, at times made Rich Abelson seem mild-mannered.

His Madison-based AFSCME council included the state employees union.

Beil, a former seminarian and probation officer, had been around forever and had deeply influenced governors of both parties.

"Characters like Walker" didn't understand that employees had traded lower wages for solid pensions, he said.

Later, Beil would threaten that state workers might just strike — illegally.

"Does he want our firstborn?" he asked.

The next governor would face a $3.6 billion budget shortfall, according to the nonpartisan Legislative Fiscal Bureau. Walker also wanted tax cuts.

But he was vague during the campaign about how he would persuade unions to go along with his major budget proposal: pension and health care cost-sharing from employees.

By his own mouth, Walker spoke mainly about getting concessions through tough bargaining. State unions would want to avoid layoffs — or the furloughs Doyle had used, he said.

Less than a week before general election day, Walker faced a direct question at an Oshkosh Northwestern editorial board meeting:

Would he negotiate with state unions over the pension contribution he wanted from employees? Yep, he said.

"You still have to negotiate it. I did at the county as well. … We'd approach a similar strategy for the state."

Walker's labor stance sounded tough, not transformative. Labor leaders didn't sense a kill shot was coming.

Or they didn't think that Walker could pull it off if he tried. For the previous two years, Democrats had control of the administration and both chambers of the Legislature.

The elections on Nov. 2, 2010, Scott Walker's 43rd birthday, gave him all he needed.

He easily knocked off Tom Barrett.

Republicans took both chambers of the Legislature in a national wave for the GOP. Walker would take over state government without an opposition party to blunt his agenda, as the County Board had done in Milwaukee.

State unions rushed to finish a contract with the departing Doyle, but a union bricklayer, a Democrat, cast the deciding vote in the Legislature to defeat it.

Walker was free, as he would later say, to "drop the bomb" on labor, igniting the standoff with unions that made him a national figure.

A decade of jousting with labor seemed only to fuel his rise.

"The unions made Scott Walker," County Supervisor Rob McDonald said. "He should slap a union label sticker on his car."

In the aftermath

In the years following the Act 10 fight, Walker's national profile grew as he fended off a recall attempt, won re-election and ran unsuccessfully for the GOP nomination for president ultimately seized by Donald Trump.

In his old stomping grounds, Milwaukee County, the fiscal picture improved dramatically.

County Executive Chris Abele's fiscal conservatism, earlier actions by Walker and the County Board, the national economic recovery — all contributed.

But through Act 10, Walker had given his successor, Abele, the powers that he himself lacked while in Milwaukee County's top job.

"The county's overall financial condition — which five years ago was in 'intensive care' — has progressed beyond 'critical' and is heading toward 'stable,'" the Public Policy Forum said when it revisited county finances in late 2013.

County government was making new investments in mental health, fixing roads and building up other neglected programs — without raising property taxes or increasing debt.

Gone were the bargaining battles with AFSCME. County employees felt the change in their take-home pay; Abele required workers to pay a much bigger chunk of health care costs.

Gone, too, is Abelson, who moved on to the union's international office in Washington, D.C. On his old turf, the Milwaukee-based AFSCME council lost 70% of its members shortly after Act 10.

As Walker surged to an early lead in the 2016 race for the GOP presidential nomination, an embittered Abelson called Walker a fraud who says he's for workers but cuts family-supporting government jobs.

"He destroyed Milwaukee County," Abelson said.

A few months later, AFSCME leaders delighted in Walker's sudden exit from the race.

They saw his fall as a clear repudiation of the federal union limits Walker rolled out in summer 2015 while trying to re-energize his presidential campaign.

Walker disagrees. He said Trump adviser Newt Gingrich emailed him just this week expressing interest in that plan.

"They should tackle that," Walker said — and consider term limits on Congress and federal judges, as well as fulfilling promises to secure the border and overturn Obamacare.

"They should go big and bold and not hold back," he said, echoing his description of Act 10.

Walker might have had a chance to join Trump in D.C. No doubt, some union leaders in Wisconsin would have helped gas up his old "Van Force One" — anything to get him out of the state.

But Walker, still only 49 and trying to navigate his complicated relationship with Trump and with Wisconsin voters, says he strongly prefers being governor and leading the Republican Governors Association.

As for seeking a third term, he said, "I'm not 100% sure, but I'm definitely headed in that direction."

More about the impact of Act 10

To read the full "Act 10 at Five" series, which explores the impact of Scott Walker's 2011 law curtailing collective bargaining for most public employees, go to jsonline.com/act10.
© 2016 Journal Media Group
