
Schimel might investigate video - Conservative activist claims it reveals voter fraud scheme
Newspaper October 21, 2016 | Milwaukee Journal Sentinel (WI)
Author: Jason Stein, Patrick Marley Section: News 654 Words
Page: A4
Schimel might investigate video - Conservative activist claims it reveals voter fraud scheme
Madison - Wisconsin Attorney General Brad Schimel is raising the possibility of an investigation into a conservative activist's video that the filmmaker claims reveals evidence of a voter fraud scheme.

If Schimel, a Republican, looks into the issue, it might eventually provide the public with a look at the unedited videos shot by James O'Keefe and the group he founded, Project Veritas Action. The conservative group - which has deceptively edited past videos - has declined to release the raw footage of its most recent work.

Project Veritas praised Schimel's statement but hedged on whether the group would fully cooperate with an investigation by the longtime GOP prosecutor, saying it would depend on undisclosed factors.

"Depending on the exact wording of the request, we will gladly assist the AG's office in any investigation of Mr. (Scott) Foval or of voting malfeasance exposed in our recent videos," said Stephen Gordon of Project Veritas, who did not elaborate.

The secretly recorded videos feature numerous short comments from Foval, who has long been involved in politics in Wisconsin and recently performed work for liberal groups People for the American Way and Americans United for Change. CNN reported Foval had been fired because of the videos released this week.

Schimel spokesman Johnny Koremenos wouldn't say Thursday whether the Department of Justice would investigate the case but strongly hinted that it was considering action.

"The attorney general is aware of these videos and very concerned about apparent violations of the law. We are evaluating and reviewing available options to address the serious questions these videos raise," Koremenos said.

Foval has not agreed to requests to an interview from the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel but did release a statement saying he was being framed and that he and his associates "were only involved in above-board, legal, legitimate organizing work."

"All who view these recordings should remember that they were speculative conversations where we attempted to correct a misguided idea put forth by O'Keefe and his cronies, and we did not take the bait," Foval said.

In a statement to the Journal Sentinel, Project Veritas officials declined to release the footage that they edited down to produce their videos.

"Project Veritas does not release raw or unedited tapes or reporters' notes of investigations. This policy ensures compliance with federal and state laws while providing the best privacy protection for individuals recorded," the statement reads.

In the wake of 2009 videos that resulted in the dismantling of the community organizing group ACORN, O'Keefe agreed to pay a $100,000 legal settlement to a former employee of ACORN. That video appears to show the ACORN employee agreeing to help O'Keefe and a collaborator to smuggle girls into the country for sex trafficking, but in the settlement O'Keefe said he didn't know the worker had contacted police afterward.

In 2010, O'Keefe pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges related to an attempt to tamper with the phone system at then-U.S. Sen. Mary Landrieu's office.

In the latest videos, Foval made a number of short statements that appear to deal with how to cover up voter fraud without making clear if Foval was speaking about something real or something hypothetical.

"When I do this I think as an investigator first," Foval said in one comment. "I think backwards from how they would prosecute if they could and then try to build out the method to avoid that."

"It's a very easy thing for Republicans to say, 'Well, they're busing people in,'" Foval said in another snippet. "You know what, we've been busing people in to deal with you (expletive) for 50 years and we're not going to stop now."

As part of that exchange, Foval talked about the value of having people use cars instead of a bus.

"If the car has a Wisconsin license and it's owned by a third entity, then it's much harder to prove that these people drove in from out of state," he said. "There's no bus involved, so you can't prove conspiracy."

Jacob Carpenter in Milwaukee contributed to this article.
Copyright 2016 Journal Sentinel, All Rights Reserved.
