Trump's day-after:I'll accept election results --if I win 
October 21, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author:Julie Pace,JOSHLEDERMANandJILLCOLVINAssociatedPress 
Section:News 
1344Words 
Page: A1 
OpenURL 
Link 
DELAWARE, Ohio  Mocking his critics, Donald Trump pledged Thursday to fully accept the outcome of next months presidential election  if he wins. The Republican said he reserved the right to contest questionable results, deepening his unsubstantiated assertions that the race against Hillary Clinton could be rigged against him. 
Trumps comments came a day after his stunning refusal in the final presidential debate to say whether he would concede to Clinton if he loses. His resistance, threatening to undermine the essence of American democracy, was roundly rejected by fellow Republicans. 
Sen. John McCain of Arizona, the 2008 GOP nominee, called the peaceful transfer of power the pride of our country. 
I didnt like the outcome of the 2008 election. But I had a duty to concede, and I did so without reluctance, McCain said in a lengthy statement. A concession isnt just an exercise in graciousness. It is an act of respect for the will of the American people, a respect that is every American leaders first responsibility. 
With the presidential race slipping away from him, Trump has repeatedly raised the specter of a rigged election, despite no evidence of widespread voter fraud heading toward Election Day or in previous presidential contests. His top advisers and running mate Mike Pence have tried to soften his comments, only to watch helplessly as he plunges ahead. 
Asked in Wednesdays debate if he would accept the election results and concede to Clinton if he loses, Trump said: I will look at it at the time. I will keep you in suspense. 
Clinton slammed Trumps comments as horrifying, and fellow Democrats piled on Thursday. 
That undermines our democracy, President Barack Obama said while campaigning for Clinton in Florida. Our democracy depends on people knowing their vote matters. 
First lady Michelle Obama told 7,000 Clinton supporters in Republican-leaning Arizona on Thursday that Trump was threatening to ignore our voices and reject the outcome of this election. She said that was the same as threatening the very idea of America itself. 
Trumps comments overshadowed his attempts to diminish Clintons credibility during the debate. He entered the contest desperate to reshape the race and attract new voters even as he inspires widening skepticism about his fitness for office because of his brash temperament. It appeared unlikely that he accomplished those goals. 
Campaigning Thursday in must-win Ohio, Trump tried to make light of the situation. 
I would like to promise and pledge to all of my voters and supporters and to all of the people of the United States that I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election, he said. After letting that vow hang in the air for a few seconds, he added, If I win. 
The Republican nominee said he would accept a clear election result but reserved his right to contest or file a legal challenge if he loses. He brushed off the likelihood of that happening with a confident prediction that were not going to lose. 
Yet numerous Republican leaders concede Trump is heading for defeat barring a significant shift in the campaigns closing days. The GOPs top concern now is salvaging its majority in the Senate, followed closely by worries over the Republicans once-comfortable grip on the House. 
The landscape has gotten a lot tougher for Republicans in the House, said Liesl Hickey, a Republican strategist involved some of those races. Sen. Pat Toomey, R-Pa., said Trumps comments were irresponsible. 
Maine Gov. Paul LePage called Trumps comments an absolute stupid move and advised him to take your licks and lets move on. 
U.S. elections are run by local elected officials  Republicans, in many of the most competitive states. 
Trumps campaign pointed to Al Gore and George W. Bush in 2000 as an example of why it would be premature for Trump to say he would acquiesce on Nov. 8. That election, which played out for weeks until the Supreme Court weighed in, centered not on allegations of fraud but on proper vote-counting after an extremely close outcome in Florida led to a mandatory recount. 
Trump tried to turn the tables on Clinton by accusing her of cheating and suggesting she should resign from the race. He cited a hacked email that showed her campaign had been tipped off about a question shed be asked in a CNN town hall meeting during the Democratic primary. 
Can you imagine if I got the questions? They would call for the re-establishment of the electric chair, do you agree? Trump said at a rally in Ohio. 
Trumps effort to shift the conversation back to Clinton focused on an email from longtime Democratic 
operative Donna Brazile to Clintons campaign in March with the subject line From time to time I get the questions in advance. It contained the wording of a death penalty question that Brazile suggested Clinton would be asked. 
Brazile, now the acting Democratic National Committee chairwoman, was a CNN contributor at the time she sent the email, one of thousands disclosed publicly by WikiLeaks after Clintons campaign chairmans emails were hacked. Clintons campaign and the Obama administration has said Russia was behind the hack. 
GOP, DEMOCRATS REACT TO TRUMP ON ACCEPTING ELECTION OUTCOME 
Voters have every right to be vigilant in looking out for fraud, but I have confidence in the state and county officials here in South Dakota to do everything they can to ensure our elections are fair. The American electoral process is the cornerstone of our democracy. Suggesting otherwise undermines an electoral system that is a model for nations around the world. 
I have faith in the system. I particularly have faith in the diversity of the system all over the country. 
Since the end of George Washingtons presidency in 1797, our nation has peacefully and smoothly transitioned power from one president to the next  it is one of the hallmarks of our democracy. Only someone as delusional as Donald Trump would believe he is the exception to this rule. 
The voters are going to decide this election, and Donald Trump needs to accept the outcome. If there are reports that need to be investigated, they will be, as I used to do as attorney general. 
I think some of the comments from Donald Trump about these election results are worse than unfortunate  its irresponsible. The fact is, for 240 years, weve had the greatest republic in the history of the world. And part of the reason weve had such a great republic is because the American people have known that our elections have legitimacy. They may not be absolutely perfect in all respects at all times, but theres integrity and they are legitimate. And its absolutely essential that all candidates acknowledge that and accept the results. 
Ron believes we need to respect the results on Election Day. 
The sanctity of the ballot box is critical to our democracy. I have full faith in (Ohio) Secretary of State Jon Husted and our county boards of elections to ensure the integrity of the election. 
I didnt like the outcome of the 2008 election. But I had a duty to concede, and I did so without reluctance. A concession isnt just an exercise in graciousness. It is an act of respect for the will of the American people, a respect that is every American leaders first responsibility. 
Silence is complicity. Evasion is unacceptable. Speaker Ryan and Senator McConnell must make it 
unequivocally clear that they reject Trumps horrifying attack on our elections. 
Our democracy relies on confidence in election results, and the speaker is fully confident the states will carry out this election with integrity. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Julie Pace,JOSHLEDERMANand JILLCOLVIN;Associated Press, 'Trump's day-after:I'llaccept election results --if I win', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 21 Oct 2016 A1 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16033BD36670F140 
