Voter ID, unions the topic of lastest monthly pub talk hosted by St. Louis Episcopal church 
September 11, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author: Ashley Lisenby St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Section: STL Sunday 
551 Words 
Page: B1 
OpenURL 
Link 
ST. LOUIS  Two pastors walk into a bar sounds like the beginning of a trite joke, but once a month an Episcopal reverend facilitates discussions about faith and politics in a St. Louis pub. 
The last two Theology on Tap sessions included discussions on firearms and lesbian, gay and transsexual issues. The Rev. Michael Angell of The Episcopal Church of the Holy Communion in University City has facilitated the monthly talks the last couple of years. The group meets the first Tuesday of every month. 
Septembers topic on tap at Dressels Public House in the Central West End was labor, voter registration laws and, wait for it, holiness. 
If the church doesnt have something to say to whats going on, what is the church doing? Angell asked rhetorically. He said the role of churches in pioneering social justice movements is not a new concept, noting the role of the black Protestant church during the civil rights movement. 
(The church) can absolutely talk about political issues, he said. 
Come November, Missouri voters will be asked if the state should require a government-issued photo ID to vote. Proponents of the legislation say it could decrease voter fraud, but others say the proposal would disenfranchise minorities, the poor and the elderly. 
First-time Theology on Tap participant Skip Coburn said the Voting Rights Act of 1965 was one of the most important laws of his lifetime. 
Holy Communion and other churches plan to host a phone bank ahead of the election to talk to thousands of Missouri voters who are undecided on the issue. 
For those shocked by the idea of pastors discussing the big issues of the day over hops, Angell said beer in the church dates back centuries to brewing monks in Europe. 
St. Louis church The Journey launched Theology at the Bottleworks more than 10 years ago and faith-oriented beer hangouts are operated by churches in other cities. 
Angell emphasized theres no pressure for people to drink at Theology on Tap. He said the space simply provides a relaxed environment for people to have meaningful conversations about tough topics. 
GOD AND LABOR 
Vacation! 
That was the shouted response when a guest speaker, the Rev. Jon Stratton of Trinity Episcopal Church, asked what immediately came to mind at the mention of Labor Day. Unions conjured up thoughts of social justice, negotiations and Dennis Hopper. 
What about God? Stratton asked. Most in the room didnt make that connection. Thats because most people think of faith as otherworldly, he said, and often overlook labor as a critical part of faith. 
But work is a part of the fabric of scripture, Stratton said. All throughout scripture God hears the cries of the worker, he added later. 
Increasing minimum wage was another part of Strattons presentation, saying attempts to take away peoples power and dignity are unjust and immoral. Others agreed devaluing workers also degrades the value, or holiness, of work. 
Kindergarten teacher Ilena Albarron said she decided to come back to Theology on Tap after attending the discussion God and guns because she learned more about other peoples perspectives. 
The discussion about issues drew me; issues I may think about but never discuss outside my own group, she said. As a voter, Im becoming more informed. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Ashley Lisenby; St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 'Voter ID, unions the topic of lastest monthly pub talk hosted by St. Louis Episcopal church', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 11 Sep 2016 B1 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15F55F3E6D1371A8 
