St. Louis business owner has $1 million mansion in Wildwood but votes in the city 
January 3, 2017 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author: Stephen Deere St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Section: News 
1750 Words 
ANALYSIS 
Page: A1 
OpenURL 
Link 
ST. LOUIS  Khaled Salamehs tax records list his $1 million house in Wildwood as his home address. So does a deed to another piece of property Salameh just acquired in December. 
On Facebook, there are multiple posts with a map pinpointing his 6,100-square-foot residence built in 2010 on eight acres in west St. Louis County  the one with four bedrooms and 3 baths. 
The captions read: Home. 
But when Salameh votes, he casts his ballot more than 30 miles east in St. Louis citys 5th Ward, where some of his businesses are situated. 
City voting records say Salameh resides at a car lot on North 14th Street north of downtown  a peculiarity uncovered during the Post-Dispatchs continuing investigation into voting irregularities. A few months ago, two city elections were overturned because of questions raised about how absentee ballots were handled, largely in the 5th Ward. 
The records also show that Salameh, a politically connected St. Louis businessman whose family runs grocery stores, gas stations and other businesses throughout some of the citys poorest neighborhoods, registered to vote in the city in 2008. He most recently voted in the city in the November election. 
Salamehs seemingly strategic use of suffrage might appear improper. But it turns out the question of where one lives can be complicated. 
At least in Missouri. 
Lots of states have very clear definitions of residency, Boone County Clerk Wendy Noren said. We dont. 
Authorities partly rely on another provision of state law that may make things even murkier:  Place of residence means the place where the family of any person permanently resides in this state, and the place where any person having no family generally lodges. 
If thats not ambiguous enough, heres the key sentence from the only Missouri Supreme Court decision on the issue: 
It has been said that residence is largely a matter of intention, to be determined not only from the utterances of the person whose residence is in issue but also from his acts and in the light of all the facts and circumstances of the case. 
CITY ELECTIONS UNDER SCRUTINY 
Last year, the enigmatic nature of Missouri's voting statutes came under scrutiny as two St. Louis elections were overturned because of irregularities involving absentee ballots. Some election authorities had to spend thousands of dollars to change practices that did not comply with the fine print in state law. 
It started in July when lawyer David Roland told the St. Louis Election Board he had reviewed voting records over 15 election cycles and found a "massive, systematic violation of the state's absentee ballot statutes." Many of those alleged violations took place during elections involving members of the Hubbard family -a north St. Louis political family with close ties to Salameh. 
Roland was concerned that his client, challenger Bruce Franks Jr., might lose the Aug. 2 Democratic primary for the 78th District State House seat to incumbent Rep. Penny Hubbard because of the improper use of absentee ballots. 
Franks ended up losing that election by 90 votes. Roland sued to have it overturned. His argument centered on a technicality. The St. Louis Election Board had not required all absentee ballots to be placed in envelopes as state law stipulates. 
Meanwhile, a Post-Dispatch investigation published in late August found numerous irregularities in the Aug. 2 primary. Some voters said applications for absentee ballots were filled out in their names without their permission. Others said they were signed up to vote absentee under false pretenses. And still others said that people representing themselves as Hubbard campaign workers filled out their ballots for them. 
Franks was granted a do-over election in September. He won 76 percent of the votes and defeated Penny Hubbard. 
In another court-ordered do-over election in November, activist Rasheen Aldridge Jr. defeated Rodney Hubbard Sr., Penny Hubbard's husband, in the race to be 5th Ward Democratic committeeman. 
Meanwhile, a grand jury began an investigation into the primary election. On Dec. 20, St. Louis Circuit Attorney Jennifer Joyce announced that "important evidence" discovered during the city's criminal investigation into potential voter fraud had been turned over to the U.S. Attorney's Office, which has now taken over an expanded inquiry. 
Joyce's statement did not elaborate on the nature of the evidence. 
SLEEPING AT THE CAR LOT 
The fact that Salameh's voter registration listed a car lot as his address is among a handful of curiosities uncovered by the Post-Dispatch during its investigation. 
Salameh and his family own gas stations and convenience stores in north St. Louis. He often has contributed to the Hubbards' campaigns. In 2010, Rodney Hubbard Jr., the son of Penny and Rodney Hubbard, was fined $322,000 by the Missouri Ethics Commission for violations stemming from his failed state senate campaign two years earlier. Those violations included seven purchases totaling $8,539 from Salama Markets for "T-shirt/Security" in one instance or "supplies" in others, according to an Ethics Commission order. 
Last month, Salameh, 52, sat behind the check-cashing counter at his gas station about a block away from the car lot. He said he voted in the city because he slept in a house around the corner. He said he used the car-lot address when he registered to vote because it has an apartment that he slept in. Although the building does have a two-room suite on the second floor, it does not have a residential occupancy permit. 
His family stays in the house in Wildwood, he said. 
State Sen. Jamilah Nasheed has known Salameh for decades. 
"Everyone knows Khaled," Nasheed said. "Everyone knows the family." 
The car lot was once a store. Nasheed said she believed members of the Salameh family often slept there over the years. 
Kenneth Warren, a professor of political science at St. Louis University, said that where a person sleeps usually determines where they reside. But how many nights a person must spend in a place for it to qualify as a residence is a question a judge must decide, he said. 
"I have actually stayed up so late at SLU that I have a sleeping bag that I brought there in case I just don't want to go home," Warren said. "I couldn't claim I lived in the city." 
However, prosecutors are often reluctant to pursue voter residency cases because they can be difficult to prove. 
"It's not a big risk because they are not prosecuted," Warren said. "A lot of people think of it as a game, not a crime." 
FROM PAMELA BOSLEY TO KIT BOND 
The last major prosecution Warren recalled happened in 1990. 
St. Louis prosecutors charged Pamela Bosley, a member of a prominent political family in the city, with felony vote fraud for casting a ballot in the city's 3rd Ward when she lived in the city of Northwoods in St. Louis County. Bosley, the daughter of St. Louis Alderman Freeman Bosley Sr. and sister of former Mayor Freeman Bosley Jr., claimed she had always intended to return to the 3rd Ward and considered it her permanent home. She was convicted and given three years of probation. 
A Post-Dispatch headline at the time read: 'Bosley Trial Showed Residence Law is Hazy.' 
The argument Pamela Bosley invoked was the same one used by Christopher "Kit" Bond, a Republican, 18 years earlier. 
Bond had more success. 
Bond's case centered on whether his name should stay on the ballot in the 1972 Republican primary election for governor. Under the Missouri constitution, gubernatorial candidates must have resided in the state for 10 years. Bond had spent the years leading up to the election in Virginia, New York, Atlanta and Washington. 
Bond had paid income taxes in other states. He had registered cars in other states. He had been admitted to the legal bar and obtained a marriage license in other states. 
But Bond also had paid his annual bar fees to maintain his law license in Missouri. He remained a member of the First Presbyterian Church of Mexico. Dental records showed he continued making regular visits to his dentist in St. Louis. And friends testified that Bond made multiple statements about returning to the state to be active in Missouri Republican politics. 
The case went to the state Supreme Court, which decided 4-2 in favor of keeping Bond's name on the ballot. He was elected to his first term as governor that November and later would become a U.S. Senator. The ruling included a sentence that said residency was largely a matter of intention. 
FINDING HOME NOT ALWAYS EASY 
Noren, the Boone County Clerk, said she occasionally received a complaint that someone was voting in one jurisdiction but resided in another. She looks at a variety of factors including information on tax bills and drivers licenses. If she believes someone is voting in the wrong place, she will send a notice that she is transferring the registration. 
Most of the time I dont hear a peep out of them when I get one of these, Noren said. They kind of know they are doing wrong. 
Erwin O. Switzer, chairman of the St. Louis Board of Election Commissioners, said the board primarily relied on information provided by voters to verify their residency. 
The St. Louis board will check the address to make sure it is not in a commercial zone. However, that does not catch businesses situated within residential areas. Such is the case with Salamehs car lot. 
Switzer said the board would examine its practices to see if there were ways to improve. He would not discuss any action the board might take in regards to Salameh. 
Salameh, who insists he never sleeps at the Wildwood home, declined to discuss any information that would seem to indicate he doesnt live in the city. 
That includes a Dec. 12 deed he executed on a new piece of city property in which the Wildwood house was listed as his residence address, and, of course, his Facebook posts with the map showing the Wildwood residence with the description of home. 
Facebook is not a legal document, Salameh said. Ask me something different. 
Copyright (c) 2017 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Stephen Deere; St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 'St. Louis business owner has $1 million mansion in Wildwood but votes in the city', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 3 Jan 2017 A1 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/161AF508F4E56D78 
