p=AWNB&docref=news/162234E4309FB930 
Missouri's Republican-led Legislature sets pro-business course 
January 5, 2017 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author: Celeste Bott, Kurt Erickson and Austin Huguelet St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Section: News 
1753 Words 
Page: A1 
OpenURL 
Link 
JEFFERSON CITY  With Gov.-elect Eric Greitens looking on, Missouri Republican lawmakers spent their first day back at the Capitol outlining pro-business goals for the new legislative session, many of which already have the blessing of the soon-to-be chief executive. 
Discussions Wednesday were in line with a GOP agenda that has slowly emerged in recent weeks, including a fast-tracked right-to-work bill that would limit the ability of labor unions to collect dues from members. 
Republican supermajorities in the House and Senate no longer have to contend with Gov. Jay Nixon, a Democrat, whose veto pen has been a roadblock to their efforts in the past. 
Acknowledging their new favorable political reality, House Speaker Todd Richardson reminded his caucus that greater power came with greater responsibility to make the legislative process deliberative. 
But as they relished their new ally in the Governors Mansion, one outgoing Democrat shared some parting thoughts. 
Missouri Secretary of State Jason Kander, vowing to use his final days in office to make a point about voting rights, urged lawmakers not to take further action on a controversial photo ID law passed last session and approved by voters, citing court challenges in other states. 
If you choose to follow the example of Wisconsin and North Carolina, Kander said in the House chamber, I guess well see you in court. 
The amendment and corresponding law  which requires Missourians to show photo identification before voting  was hailed by Republicans as a means of preventing voter fraud. Democrats raised concerns that it disenfranchised people of color, older people, students and the poor. 
Kanders lecture wasnt received favorably by Republicans, who called it a slap in the face to the democratic process and opted not to read a House resolution thanking Kander for his service. 
The first day of the legislative session is largely ceremonial. And beyond Kanders remarks, this year was no exception. 
For some, the swearings-in and the speeches are part of a familiar experience. But for freshmen 
legislators such as Sen. Bill Eigel, R-St. Charles, it was the first day on the job. 
Eigel said he was looking forward to working with Greitens to make the state more business-friendly. 
Whether its labor reform or tort reform, there will be support for change and it will be passed, especially with a governor whos willing to sign, Eigel said. 
He also supports Greitens call for a total ban on lobbyists gifts, which totaled more than $500,000 last year. Richardson promised that a total gift ban would be the first bill out of the House, and he expressed hope that the Senate, which has been a roadblock to bans in the past, would be on board. 
Thats an easy step we can take as a legislature to restore the publics trust in us, Eigel said. 
Its also a rare area of agreement between the states dwindling Democratic caucus and Greitens, who ran on a promise to clean up corruption in Jefferson City. 
Greitens spoke to House Republicans before the session began but declined to speak to reporters afterward, instead opting to watch proceedings in the Senate. 
The lone senator not to be sworn in Wednesday was Jacob Hummel, D-St. Louis. Hummel, who was elected in a special election in August to replace former Sen. Joe Keaveny, says he is waiting until next week in order to maximize his time in office. If he had been sworn in on Wednesday, he would only be allowed to serve a total of six years in the Senate. By waiting, he can serve up to 10 years. 
Senate President Ron Richards speech didnt focus on policy goals but rather the grandeur of the state Capitol and the importance of civility under the statehouse dome. 
Im hoping we are remembered for respecting the institution of the Senate and each other; for restoring civility to the chamber; and that we were able to be passionate about our convictions without being combative with one another, Richard said. 
By contrast, House Speaker Richardsons comments delved into policy details. In addition to labor reform, the speaker said he has tasked House committees with an overview of the states regulations and licensing requirements to ultimately make it easier for ride-sharing companies such as Uber and Lyft and home-sharing companies such as AirBnB to operate in Missouri. 
Richardson also vowed to expand access to charter schools and virtual schools and to explore education savings accounts  controversial school choice legislation likely to be met with resistance from Democrats. 
He, too, also called for respect despite inevitable disagreement. 
This is the peoples House, and we are a body that is supposed to have a spirited discussion, but those discussions and that disagreement should stay professional and mindful of our fellow legislators and the constituents we serve, Richardson said. 
But even new Democrats understand theres a challenge ahead for the minority party. 
Rep. Bruce Franks Jr., a St. Louis Democrat who won a special 78th district election after the initial contest was marred with absentee voter irregularities, said ethics reform could provide some common ground depending on how serious Republicans are about it. 
But he pledged to fight to put right-to-work legislation to a public vote through a referendum. 
When youre doing something that affects so many people in everyones districts, you have to go to the people, he said. And there are Republicans who feel strongly about unions in the way we do, so hopefully we can reach out. 
Copyright (c) 2017 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Celeste Bott, Kurt Erickson and Austin Huguelet; St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 'Missouri's Republican-led Legislature sets pro-business course', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 5 Jan 2017 A1 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/161B9D0B69E6D268 
