Missouri voters will see six questions on ballot 
October 6, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) Author: Kurt Erickson St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Section: News 
809 Words Page: A1 
OpenURL 
Link 
JEFFERSON CITY  In addition to picking the next president, governor and U.S. Senator, Missouri 
voters will see six questions on the Nov. 8 ballot that could have a significant impact on the state. The ballot initiatives include questions that could affect the future of the Missouri state park system, boost the cost of cigarettes and make it harder for people to vote. 
Heres a rundown of the questions: CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 1 MISSOURI'S PARKS, SOILS AND WATER SALES TAX Amendment 1 allows Missourians to decide if the state should continue its one-tenth of one percent 
sales and use tax, which is used to support soil and water conservation and finance the state park and 
historic sites system. The tax was first approved by voters in 1984, and then again in 1988, 1996 and 2006. The tax generates approximately $90 million each year for soil and water conservation, and for the operation of the state park system, which has 88 parks and historic sites. 
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 2 CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTION LIMITS The proposed amendment will re-establish campaign contribution limits in Missouri. Limits were first 
approved by voters in 1994, but they were removed by the Legislature in 2008. Contributions would be 
capped at $2,600 per election for individual candidates and $25,000 for political parties. Supporters say it is important to restore limits so that large donors do not have too much influence in the political realm. Opponents say the current system ensures transparency in the system. 
It comes as mega donors such as Rex Sinquefield and David Humphreys have poured a total of more than $20 million of their own cash into this year's races. CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 3 
CIGARETTE TAX INCREASE FOR EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION The proposal would steadily increase taxes on cigarettes until 2020, when the total increase would reach 
60 cents a pack. The amendment also would create a 67-cents-per-pack fee for wholesalers on certain discount-brand cigarettes. The higher taxes would generate between $263 million and $374 million each year, with the revenues 
placed in an Early Childhood Health and Education Trust Fund and used for early childhood education. Supporters say raising Missouri's lowest-in-the-nation cigarette tax would help catch up to other states in 
state-backed preschool funding. Missouri taxes cigarettes at 17 cents per pack while the national average is $1.65 per pack. Opponents say funds raised by the measure would be controlled by an unelected commission rather 
than through the legislative process. PROPOSITION A CIGARETTE TAX INCREASE FOR TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE A second cigarette tax increase proposal would phase in a 23-cent increase over five years, with the 
proceeds going to fix roads and bridges. The proposal also would increase the tax that sellers pay on 
other tobacco products by 5 percent of the manufacturer's invoice price. When fully implemented, the tax increases would generate approximately $95 million to $103 million annually. 
Both tax increase measures have been opposed by groups including the American Cancer Society and 
the American Heart Association, which say neither increase is big enough. It remains unclear what happens if both taxes are approved. Officials say it may mean both taxes would be added to the cost of tobacco products. 
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 4 PROHIBITION ON NEW SALES AND USE TAXES The amendment would prohibit state or local sales or use taxes on services, such as haircuts or 
lawnmower repairs. It comes in response to states such as North Carolina and Washington, which have enacted taxes on services as a way to avoid raising income or property taxes. 
The amendment is backed by business organizations such as the Missouri Bankers Association, the Missouri Press Association and the Missouri Association of Realtors, which circulated the petition to put the amendment on the ballot. 
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 6 
PHOTO IDENTIFICATION FOR VOTERS 
This amendment will allow voters to decide if the Constitution should be changed to require voters to present a specified form of identification in order to cast a ballot. Valid forms would include photo IDs issued by the state, the federal government or the military. The proposal also would require the state to pay for individuals to obtain a valid ID if they do not have one, or to obtain documents necessary for an ID. 
The proposal also contains a provision allowing a voter without a valid photo ID to vote with a regular ballot by showing another form of identification. 
Supporters say the change is needed to protect the integrity of the elections system by preventing voter fraud. 
Opponents, including Gov. Jay Nixon, say it will disenfranchise voters without a photo ID or the means to easily obtain one. They also say there are no proven cases of voter fraud to warrant the creation of a voter ID system. 
In other states, courts have struck down voter ID laws, raising questions about whether the proposal would pass constitutional muster if challenged. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Kurt Erickson; St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 'Missouri voters will see six questions on ballot', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 6 Oct 2016 A1 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15FD9A0C1E911E78 
