After alleged absentee voter fraud in St. Louis, politicians and experts sound off on who's to blame 
September 5, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author: Celeste Bott St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Section: News 
1250 Words 
Page: A1 
OpenURL 
Link 
JEFFERSON CITY  A recent Post-Dispatch investigation into absentee voting in St. Louis has turned up plenty of questions  among them, where the buck stops when local elections go awry. 
For Kenneth Warren, a professor of political science at St. Louis University, its a familiar story. The city has a history with voter fraud, and hes been watching it for years. 
The recent incident reminds him of another controversy more than 25 years ago: a contentious St. Louis school board race he investigated in 1991, when now-U.S. Sen. Roy Blunt was serving as Missouris secretary of state. 
A probe by the citys Election Board turned up some fraud, namely from two election judges who admitted under oath that for years, they cast ballots for absent voters, sometimes even for their own relatives. 
As reported by the Post-Dispatch in 1992, Blunt  the states top election official at the time  wanted those judges charged. He also criticized the citys inquiry into the race, saying the speed of the investigation was totally unacceptable  by any standard Im comfortable with. Eventually, he asked the U.S. attorneys office to get involved. 
But he made the limitations of his office clear. 
We have expressed our willingness to provide assistance in this matter, he said in a statement in August 1991. However, the board and the court have jurisdiction over this investigation. 
Flash forward to 2016, as Blunt is running to keep his seat in Congress against Missouri Secretary of State Jason Kander. His campaign has repeatedly criticized Kanders tenure in the office Blunt used to hold. Blunts backers point to a different incident in April, where a ballot shortage in St. Louis County meant voters were turned away in 24 of the countys 432 polling places. 
Jason Kander never misses an opportunity to remind people that he is the states chief elections official, but the minute theres a problem, he is anxious to pass the buck rather than ensure that every eligible Missourian has the ability to vote, said Tate OConnor, press secretary for Blunts campaign, in a previous statement. 
Last week, a judge heard allegations of absentee ballot fraud in the 78th Missouri House district 
Democratic primary race, and on Friday tossed out the results and ordered a new election. A grand jury will look into the matter. Kanders opponents have added this new controversy to the list. 
Warren said thats smart politics, but not necessarily a fair claim. 
Roy Blunt was secretary of state as well, and there was fraud happening under his watch, Warren said. I dont blame him for saying it. If I was running Blunts campaign Id tell him to say the same things. But he knows its just politics to blame Jason Kander. 
Whos in charge? 
So who ultimately is in charge of local elections? Republicans have been pointing to Kanders own statements, where he identifies himself as the chief election official of the state. And he is, as defined very clearly in Missouri state law. 
The Secretary of State shall be the chief state election official responsible for the administration and coordination of state responsibilities pursuant to the Help America Vote Act of 2002, the law says. 
But state statutes also make clear that county clerks or boards of election commissioners have the authority over local elections. 
Whether a municipality has a board or a clerk comes down largely to population. Theres a board in each county that has more than 900,000 residents. State law gives the governor authority to appoint commissioners to those boards. 
In St. Louis, the Board of Election Commissioners is one of the citys county offices, which is state-mandated. Its funded by the city but overseen by four commissioners appointed by the governor  two Republican, two Democrat. 
The Help America Vote Act, a federal law sometimes known as HAVA, established minimum election administration requirements and mandated all states and local municipalities upgrade voting equipment. 
Implementation has been left to the states, and thats what the Missouri Secretary of State is tasked with. He or she sets voting standards, compliance deadlines and procedures for when HAVA is violated. 
David Kimball, a University of Missouri-St. Louis professor of political science with expertise in elections, said that means the job is largely responsive in nature. 
I mean, the fact that hes the sitting secretary of state, you sort of blame the current officeholder for whatever goes wrong under his watch, Kimball said. But in this case, the buck stops with the local election board. Theyre the ones that have been accepting absentee ballots. 
I think typically in these sorts of situations, the secretary of states job is to investigate and report on it after the fact, as to how the law might be changed and strengthened, Kimball added. 
Warren echoed a similar sentiment. Practically speaking, Jason Kander cannot monitor what happens in all the counties in the state of Missouri, Warren said. Thats absurd. 
He compared the Blunt campaign attacks to efforts to lay all responsibility for the racial unrest in 
Ferguson on Missouri Gov. Jay Nixon because hes the chief executive of the state. How (Kander) reacts to the incident is far more important, Warren said. If he just lets it go, then yes, you should blame the secretary of state. 
Overhaul contemplated Still, even some Democrats arent so quick to let Kander completely off the hook. After the shortage of ballots in St. Louis County in April, Kander tasked his offices Elections Integrity Unit 
with investigating the St. Louis County Elections Board and making recommendations for improvements. Lawmakers also investigated, including Rep. Courtney Allen Curtis, a Ferguson Democrat who chairs 
the Missouri House Special Committee on Urban Affairs. His committee, along with a House task force, grilled St. Louis County election directors who Kander has said took full responsibility for the problem. Its the secretary of states job to ensure there is confidence in the electoral system, Curtis said. As a 
leader, you can delegate, but when you delegate you ensure the people you delegate the responsibilities to do their jobs. If its a process problem, Curtis said he expected lawmakers might again be getting involved. 
Maybe its time for a complete overhaul, Curtis said. Warren maintains that no blame belongs with Kander until those following the story see how he handles the controversy. 
Similarly, he welcomed Blunts involvement in the school board case in November 1991, when Blunt was 
critical of the pace of the investigation and eventually offered his offices resources to help. I wouldnt blame (Kander) for the incident thats broken out, but he is accountable for what happens in response, Warren said. Once a problem surfaces, he should take responsibility for trying to solve the problem. 
Post-Dispatch reporter Doug Moore contributed to this report. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Celeste Bott; St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 'After alleged absentee voter fraud in St. Louis, politicians and experts sound off on who's to blame', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 5 Sep 2016 A1 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15F3D1C320EB1FC0 
