Republicans confident about overriding Nixon vetoes 
September 12, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author: Celeste Bott and Kurt Erickson St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Section: News 
1784 Words 
Page: A1 
OpenURL 
Link 
JEFFERSON CITY  Backers of a Republican-led plan to loosen Missouris gun laws say they are confident theyll be able to override Gov. Jay Nixons veto of the measure during the Legislatures veto session Wednesday. 
Senate Bill 656 would allow people to carry a concealed weapon without a permit. It was a priority for the GOP caucuses in the most recent legislative session. The package also included a lifetime concealed carry permit and added provisions for a stand your ground law in Missouri, giving people the legal right to defend themselves if they feel threatened. 
Nixon, a Democrat, said last week that ultimately, the state would be less safe if his veto of the measure was overridden. 
The firearms changes are among a handful of vetoes lawmakers are expected to debate on Wednesday. A proposal to require voters to produce photo identification at the polls is on tap for what could be a lengthy discussion. 
Republicans control both the House and Senate with veto-proof majorities. 
The gun measure passed in the Senate 24-8, and was approved by the House in a 114-36 vote, where three Democrats voted in favor of the bill and six Republicans were absent. To override Nixons veto, supporters need 109 votes in the House and 23 votes in the Senate. 
That shouldnt be a problem, sponsoring Rep. Eric Burlison, R-Springfield, said, because concerns that have been voiced by the Democratic governor since the end of session were debated at length when lawmakers first voted on the bill. 
The same objections Gov. Nixon brought up, we were able to argue against them. So I would have been concerned if the governor had any new information that had been brought to light, or if there were any technical errors with the bill, Burlison said. In this case, there arent any. 
But Nixon isnt the only one with objections. The bill also has been denounced by law enforcement groups, including the Missouri Police Chiefs Association and the Missouri Fraternal Order of Police, who say that the consequences of the bill could be dangerous. 
Make no mistake, we are staunch supporters of the Second Amendment, said Missouri FOP President Kevin Ahlbrand in a letter to the governor. We feel, however, that the enactment of SB 656, specifically 
the allowance of giving anyone not currently prohibited from possessing a firearm the ability to carry a concealed firearm without a permit, will cost not only citizen lives but will also be extremely dangerous to law enforcement officers. 
Domestic violence concerns 
Under current law, a person interested in getting a permit to carry a concealed firearm in Missouri must first submit to a criminal background check and complete a gun safety training course. Then, local sheriffs can issue permits to anyone with a clean record and no history of mental illness. 
Burlison said that process was costly and infringed on Missourians constitutional right to defend themselves and their families. 
So we currently have a situation where we make it difficult and expensive for people who want to express that right, Burlison said. Ive said before, we would find it appalling if we required citizens to pay a heavy fee, an expensive fee, and take classes in order to express their right to pray  or to vote. 
Nixon has been vocal about the need for that training and background check, particularly for the safety of domestic violence victims. 
Youve had thousands of permits that have been turned down by local sheriffs across our state, and I dont think its the job of Jeff City, especially after two and a half years ago we came up with a system thats working, Nixon said after speaking at the state fair last month. 
In certain situations, like domestic violence and others, if a local sheriff thinks theres too much heat right now in a relationship to allow one of them to be walking around carrying (a gun) for a few months, then he ought to have the power to do that. 
Colleen Coble, executive director of the Missouri Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence, said the impact on vulnerable Missourians, such as those in abusive relationships, was not a central part of the debate around the legislation. 
This is not about the full realm of belief about Second Amendment rights, but about the point of agreement about those who have been violent against family members and their partners have forfeited those rights, Coble said. 
If the Legislature chooses to sustain the veto, then the few elements in Missouri law remain to protect domestic violence abusers from having firearms, Coble added. If the veto is overridden, theres serious work to be done in January to ensure domestic violence victims arent in danger, she said. 
Rep. Stacey Newman, D-Richmond Heights, who has sponsored stalled gun violence prevention bills, said that in an otherwise banner year for domestic violence prevention  the Legislature passed several 
protective measures for victims in its most recent session  there was a dichotomy between that work and the push for SB 656. 
It tells you the power the gun lobby has on state legislatures, she said. 
The National Rifle Association Political Victory Fund recently launched a statewide ad in Missouri, featuring a woman who defended herself against a violent attack with a firearm. 
Gov. Nixon is blocking legislation guaranteeing your right to defend yourself, says a narrator in the ad. 
Burlison said that there had been misinformation about the bill and that plenty of people would still undergo training for permits, particularly if they want to conceal and carry in other states and certain parts of Missouri. 
There are 17 locations (in Missouri) where a person is not legally allowed to carry unless they have a permit. There are many reasons why its still important for a person to get a permit, and that permitting process isnt going away, he said. 
House Speaker Todd Richardson, R-Poplar Bluff, said he would be watching to see if any Democrats supported the bill in light of the endorsement Democratic gubernatorial candidate Chris Koster received from the NRA. 
This Legislature has a pretty strong track record of protecting Second Amendment rights. I think it will be interesting if they break ranks with their candidate for governor, Richardson said. 
Voter ID 
Nixon also cautioned lawmakers not to override his veto of a law that would require voters to show photo identification when they go to vote. 
Although voter ID laws in North Carolina, Michigan and Texas have been successfully challenged in three recent court cases, Sen. Will Kraus, R-Lees Summit, the sponsor of the measure, said he was confident there were enough votes to get the legislation on the books. 
I think the bill is very well written to make sure no one is turned away without having the opportunity to vote, Kraus said. 
In his veto message, Nixon said the proposed law attempted to solve a problem that didnt exist. 
Missouri already has strong protections in place to prevent voter fraud, and voter impersonation fraud is an extremely rare occurrence, Nixon wrote. Putting additional and unwarranted barriers between citizens and their ability to vote is wrong and detrimental to our system of government as a whole. 
In comments to reporters last week, he said the measure would unfairly target racial and ethnic 
minorities and elderly people. If you dont have a government ID, you have to stand in line, away from the rest of your citizens, and youre forced to have your picture taken, Nixon said. 
Kraus said the absentee voter scandal in the 78th House District that triggered a judge to order a new election was an example of how people attempted to influence elections. Voter fraud does happen, Kraus said. 
However, the allegations in the 78th District do not involve identification. Kraus said he expected some filibustering from Democrats on Wednesday. But, he said, if the House overrides the veto, Democrats know they dont have enough votes in the Senate to block it. 
I think that they understood that this was a priority for the majority party this year, Kraus said. Richardson said he was confident the measure would make it out of the House. Voter ID is something weve been working on for a very long time in Missouri. I anticipate well have a 
real strong vote of support on that, Richardson said. Sen. Jamilah Nasheed, D-St. Louis, said the push could backfire if it instead mobilized minority voters. This could work against the Republicans. This is a systematic attempt to disenfranchise minority 
voters, Nasheed said. The Republicans are going to do what they do best, which is pander to their base during the election cycle. Tax breaks 
Nixon also used his veto power in June to nix a handful of proposed changes in state tax laws. The governor said the tax breaks could draw as much as $60 million away from important state programs. 
Included is a plan to provide tax breaks for farmers who suffer losses from natural disasters, which he said could cost $50 million. Another so-called budget buster would provide a tax break for business owners who sell their company to their employees. 
The measure would allow a 50 percent break in the capital gains tax for the sale of stock in a company to 
an employee-owned stock option program. 
Nixon contends the shortfall in cash wasnt factored into the states $27.3 billion spending blueprint, leaving it out of balance if he were to approve the tax breaks. Without a veto, Nixon would have to freeze spending on other programs. 
VETO SESSION HIGHLIGHTS 
Here is a sampling of some of the legislation that Gov. Jay Nixon vetoed. The Legislature may override his action when they reconvene Wednesday: 
Gun legislation  Senate Bill 656 would allow individuals, including those from other states, to legally carry a concealed firearm even though they have been denied a permit because their background check revealed criminal offenses or caused the sheriff to believe they posed a danger. The bill also eliminates any training requirement for the permit. 
Voter ID  By requiring a photo ID to vote, Nixon says House Bill 1631 would make voting more difficult for qualified voters and disenfranchise certain classes of people. 
Tax breaks  House Bill 2030 includes a tax break that could reduce state revenue by as much as $10.3 million annually and would only benefit those earning capital gains from the sale of employer securities in an employee stock ownership plan. Senate Bill 641 would retroactively provide tax refunds for past disaster payments. The bill could cost as much as $50 million in the current fiscal year. Senate Bill 1025 includes a tax break for dance and gymnastics classes that would require cutting up to $8 million each year from other essential services. 
Late fees  Senate Bill 608 would impose new penalties and fees on low-income families, the aged, blind and disabled who participate in Medicaid. 
Truck platooning  Nixon says House Bill 1733 would make Missouri roadways less safe by allowing long-haul trucks to test an automated braking and acceleration system on certain Missouri highways. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Celeste Bott and Kurt Erickson; St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 'Republicans confident about overriding Nixon vetoes', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 12 Sep 2016 A1 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15F5B11006AAB9E0 
