Clay: 'Voices of suppression' behind Missouri voter ID referendum 
September 17, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author: Chuck Raasch St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Section: News 
402 Words 
Page: A4 
OpenURL 
Link 
WASHINGTON  Rep. William Lacy Clay, D-Mo., said Friday that the voices of voter suppression were behind a constitutional amendment referendum to require a photo ID in Missouri, and that as many as 225,000 people could be disenfranchised if it is approved. 
Clay was scheduled to monitor a panel on voting rights at an annual Congressional Black Caucus legislative conference here. In prepared remarks for that forum, Clay accused House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., of bottling up a Clay-sponsored full reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act. Its stalled in the House Judiciary Committee. 
Not because it is objectionable, Clay said, in remarks obtained by the Post-Dispatch, but because they know that if they let it come out to the floor for a vote, it would pass with a clear, bipartisan majority. 
He said that a 2013 Supreme Court decision, Shelby County vs. Holder, stripped away part of the 1965 act and, that because of that, in just a few weeks, we are going to conduct the first presidential election in 50 years without the full protection of the Voting Rights Act. 
Missouri voters will be asked to approve a measure requiring voters to present an ID at polling places, which Republicans have argued is a common-sense way to prevent voter fraud. Democrats say its particularly onerous for the elderly, the poor and minority voters. 
Federal courts in North Carolina, Wisconsin and other states have recently agreed with the Democrats position. Clay lauded those decisions, but said it cost millions to win in court. Clay is advocating uniform national voting standards. The obvious and best solution would be to establish a uniform VRA preclearance mechanism across the country, so that we could ensure the same standard of voter protection for every citizen, he said. 
The Congressional Black Caucuss four-day annual legislative conference began Wednesday and culminates Saturday night with a dinner that will feature a keynote speech by President Barack Obama, the last of his presidency. 
Besides the Clay-led discussion on voting rights, the conference has explored such topics as faith in politics, the state of African-American small businesses, and exploring ways to build trust between black communities and police. 
Former President Bill Clinton will also be honored at the dinner Saturday night. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Chuck Raasch; St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 'Clay: 'Voices of suppression' behind Missouri voter ID referendum', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 17 Sep 2016 A4 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15F7B14790C8C890 
