Zinke suggested 'a lot' of voter fraud during 2013 interview 
October 21, 2016 | Billings Gazette, The (MT) Author: Matt Hudson 
Section: Montana 
875 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Before becoming a congressman, Ryan Zinke said there was widespread voter fraud in both national and Montana elections, including a claim that the dead cast ballots. 
While election officials deny that voter fraud happens in Montana, Zinke's comments are in step with Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, who has made claims of rigged elections and raised the profile of fraud concerns leading up to the 2016 election. 
Zinke has been a supporter of Trump throughout the election year. 
In 2013, Zinke was a guest on an online radio show, The Hagmann and Hagmann Report. At the time he was a former state senator who served in the two previous terms in the Legislature. 
The conversation turned to voter fraud midway through the show, and Zinke said that voter confidence in the system is important. He then made his claim. 
"I think there was a lot of tomfoolery in this last election. I just came back from Santa Barbara with the Republican women there that went down to a local university and witnessed, you know, a lot of voter fraud," Zinke said. "And I have to believe that's probably the case across the country. I know in my home state, during the senatorial election, there was a lot of voter fraud. And there was people that voted that were not alive." 
Montana Secretary of State Linda McCulloch said Friday that she's seen no evidence of voter fraud and that claims about voting under the names of the deceased are unfounded. 
"There is no history of that," she said. "In fact, county election officials take people off when they appear in the obituaries. They take them off the (voter) rolls." 
Yellowstone County Election Administrator Bret Rutherford said he also hadn't seen issues with fraud and deceased voters. He said that in addition to monitoring obituaries, his office gets reports from the state health department to keep the voter rolls current. 
In response to questions about the radio show, Zinke campaign spokeswoman Heather Swift said on Friday that Zinke was asked about voter fraud and "simply relayed concerns he heard in various precincts." 
"The Congressman does not believe voter fraud is a big problem in Montana but does acknowledge that every few years there are ballot integrity incidents here and there that pop up," Swift said via email. 
She cited two stories from the 2012 election about a voting machine delay and the use of stickers to correct ballots. 
Concerns about voter fraud have also crept into Montana elections after reports that volunteers offered to deliver some absentee ballots for voters. Police in Livingston determined one of the volunteers to be with the Montana Democratic Party. 
The story spurred Montana Republican Party Chairman Jeff Essmann to call on McCulloch to issue a public service announcement to encourage absentee voters to hand-deliver the ballots or send them by mail. 
McCulloch said on Friday that the volunteer delivery has happened for years, but she added that the best practice is what Essmann suggested. 
"We advise people  voters  to not give their ballot to someone other than the county election office or put a stamp on it and put it in the mail," she said. 
As of Friday, 313,995 absentee ballots had been mailed. 
McCulloch said that that there are safeguards in place, mostly at the county level, to protect against voter fraud. She said that signatures on absentee ballots are verified against a voter's registration card and that in-person voters must show identification or proof of residence. 
"We look at every single signature," Rutherford said. "For some reason, nobody believes me when I say this." 
In Montana, voters can show an ID for an in-person vote. They can also present a bank statement, utility bill, paycheck or other document that includes a name and address. 
Those who don't have identification materials may cast a provisional ballot. Then voters have a day to provide an identifying document. 
After the election, a hand-counted audit checks the voting machine count. McCulloch said there has never been a discrepancy with the machine count. 
Both Rutherford and McCulloch said that the issue of voter fraud has come up throughout their tenures as election officials. And it appeared during Zinke's time in the state Senate, when multiple election bills came before the Legislature. 
A measure requiring post-election audits of voting machines became law in 2009, unanimously passing the Senate and surviving a split House vote. That process remains in effect today. 
During the same session, a bill for absentee voter confirmation mailers was also signed into law. Zinke voted against the mailers bill. 
During the 2011 session, a bill to expand voting by mail died in the House amid concerns over voter fraud. A stricter voter ID law passed both chambers but was vetoed by Gov. Brian Schweitzer. 
The mail-in ballot bill never made it to the Senate, but Zinke did cast a no vote for the voter ID measure. 
In the 2013 Hagmann show, Zinke called himself a "huge advocate for voter ID," adding that the cards would need to be widely accessible and at no cost. 
Concerns of voter fraud in the 2011 legislative session prompted McCulloch to pen a series of guest columns prior to the 2012 election. She wrote in 2011 that "irresponsible" allegations of voter fraud threatened to reduce voter turnout. 
She maintained that position Friday. 
"There has been no voter fraud in Montana," McCulloch said. "It doesn't exist." 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Billings Gazette 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Matt Hudson, 'Zinke suggested 'a lot' of voter fraud during 2013 interview', Billings Gazette, The (online), 21 Oct 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1602E5B824F62498 
