Election Boxscore
Newspaper October 23, 2016 | Oklahoman, The (Oklahoma City, OK)
Section: News 468 Words
Election Boxscore
With just 16 days until Election Day voters can find plenty of election coverage in each issue of The Oklahoman and online at NewsOK.com, which includes breakdowns of each state question and coverage of state House and Senate races across the state.

Voters can also submit questions on Monday at 10 a.m. during NewsOK's next live election chat.

‘No moral choice'

While some Republican lawmakers have jumped off the Donald Trump train following the presidential candidate's remarks about groping woman caught in a 2005 video, U.S. Rep. Steve Russell said his support remains. Not because he condones Trump's behavior, but because he has moved beyond judging candidates on their character.

“I've come to the conclusion that we do not have a moral choice in this election. Neither candidate is a moral choice in this election,” Russell told a group of voters in south Oklahoma City last week. “If you accept that premise, then you have to ask ‘what are some other factors I can look at?'”

Russell said his personal positions on defense, religious liberty, abortion and the U.S. Supreme Court lead him to believe he “overlaps more with Donald Trump” than Democrat Hillary Clinton.

Voter fraud

Trump has also raised questions about the legitimacy of the November election and warned of voter fraud that could keep him from the White House. In a presidential debate held last week, Trump still would not commit to honoring the results of the election.

Rep. Tom Cole, a former Secretary of State in Oklahoma and current Republican congressman, said he doesn't believe voter fraud is a concern this election.

“At the end of the day, the people at the precincts are usually volunteers. They're your friends and neighbors,” Cole said this week on CNN. “I don't know a single secretary of state in the United States, Republican or Democrat, that does not do everything possible to make sure the election is open, fair, and transparent,” Cole said. “And again, I say that as a guy that used to be a secretary of state. I know these folks. They're the last people in the world who want to see anything go wrong with an election."

Cole said he believes voter fraud might occur in isolated cases, but not “on a scale vast enough to change the outcome of a presidential election.”

Judicial retention

Oklahoma voters will be asked to retain or remove seven appellate court judges on Nov. 8, but there isn't expected to be too much drama as voters have never rejected retention in any previous ballot. Oklahoma is one of 38 states where voters have a role in selecting judges, according to the Oklahoma Policy Institute.

There will not be competing candidates on the ballot, but instead voters will be asked to retain two Supreme Court justices, two Court of Criminal Appeals judges and three Court of Civil Appeals judges.

Ben Felder, Staff Writer
Copyright (c) 2016 Oklahoma Publishing Company

