
Nebraska nonpartisan group to deploy election observers
Newspaper November 2, 2016 | Omaha World-Herald: Web Edition Articles (NE)
Author: JOE DUGGANWORLD-HERALD BUREAU Section: Sunrise 561 Words
Nebraska nonpartisan group to deploy election observers
LINCOLN — About 60 volunteer election observers will fan out at polling places in 10 Nebraska counties to ensure that registered voters are able to cast ballots according to law.

The trained, nonpartisan volunteers will work up to 90 shifts Tuesday under a national program sponsored by the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law.

The volunteers will focus on making sure that voters are not improperly turned away from polling places. They also will provide assistance to any voter who needs help finding the proper polling place.

The volunteers are organized and trained by Nebraskans for Civic Reform, a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization that works to make elections more accessible.

Bri McLarty Huppert, director of voting rights for the group, said that in the past, observers helped prevent a polling place from closing its doors before the 8 p.m. voting deadline.

In addition, Nebraskans for Civic Reform filed a complaint in 2012 after poll workers in Douglas County prevented dozens of voters from casting provisional ballots because the voters did not bring along identification numbers printed on their registration documents. A state review of the complaint determined that the voters were turned away improperly.

A record 1.21 million Nebraskans have registered to vote in the 2016 election.

Nebraskans for Civic Reform has communicated with the Secretary of State's Office and county election commissioners about their observation project, McLarty Huppert said.

Voters who think their rights have been violated at the polls can call in reports on Election Day at 1-866-687-8683.

Secretary of State John Gale said Tuesday that his staff will be on standby during the election to answer questions and receive complaints of voter fraud. Questions and complaints can be made by calling the voter fraud unit at 1-888-727-0007. Voters also can call Gale's office at 1-402-471-2555.

CAMPAIGN DEVELOPMENTS

EMAILS: Even if FBI agents discover classified information on a newly seized laptop, Hillary Clinton is unlikely to face criminal charges, according to legal experts and former federal prosecutors. That's largely because the Justice Department and FBI Director James Comey have already declined to prosecute based on a legal conclusion that there was no evidence that Clinton and her aides intended to violate laws governing the handling of classified information, a key element of such a criminal offense.

DONALD TRUMP: Lest there be any doubt that Trump wants to nix Obamacare, he vowed on Tuesday to press for a congressional special session to repeal and replace the law. But just exactly how Trump would follow through on the rare legislative procedure remained hazy. During a speech in the Philadelphia suburbs dedicated to blasting the Affordable Care Act, Trump said, "When we win on Nov. 8 and elect a Republican Congress, we will be able to immediately repeal and replace Obamacare. I will ask Congress to convene a special session so we can repeal and replace, and it will be such an honor for me, for you and for everybody in this country, because Obamacare has to be replaced."

HILLARY CLINTON: Clinton unleashed a new offensive against Trump on Tuesday, pushing the Republican's vulgar and sexist comments back to the forefront. "For my entire life, I've been a woman," Clinton, who would be the nation's first female president, declared in battleground Florida. "And when I think about what we now know about Donald Trump and what he's been doing for 30 years, he sure has spent a lot of time demeaning, degrading, insulting and assaulting women."

— From wire service reports
Copyright, 2016, Omaha World-Herald. All Rights Reserved.
