
Experts explain why voter fraud is rare
Newspaper October 23, 2016 | Omaha World-Herald: Web Edition Articles (NE)
Author: Staff Writer Section: Sunrise 1645 Words
Experts explain why voter fraud is rare
GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump has repeatedly warned of a rigged election, saying large-scale voter fraud is happening in the U.S. and if he loses the presidential election, that's why. There is no evidence that such widespread fraud exists. Trump's comments have alarmed voting rights experts and civil rights groups, who say the comments threaten to undermine faith in the nation's elections. Meanwhile, House Speaker Paul Ryan and other Republicans are expressing confidence in the voting systems, while state election officials are saying they are committed to conducting fair and impartial elections. It's worth noting, too, that 29 of the nation's secretaries of state — who run the elections — are Republican. — The Associated Press, the Washington Post and CQ-Roll Call

What has Trump said?

Trump first claimed the election could be rigged in August and repeated it ever since. He suggested Wednesday in the final debate that a lack of confidence in the process was preventing him from guaranteeing that he would honor its result. "They even want to try to rig the election at the polling booths, and believe me, there's a lot going on," Trump told a crowd in Wisconsin last week. "So many cities are corrupt," he added, "and voter fraud is very, very common."

Trump of late has focused on certain cities as being susceptible to voter fraud, telling a nearly all-white crowd in Pennsylvania that Philadelphia, which has a large African-American population, could be a problem spot. He said "we don't want this election stolen from us" and urged his supporters to keep a close eye on "other communities," a call that has stirred fears of voter intimidation at the polls. In Philadelphia on Monday, Republican election commissioner Al Schmidt dismissed the idea of election fraud there.

What do Americans believe?

More than two out of every three U.S. citizens in a recent poll say they are very or somewhat concerned about the security of the nation's electoral system. In the Economist/YouGov poll, 72 percent of respondents said they were very or somewhat concerned about the security of the electoral system while just 21 percent were either not very concerned or not concerned at all. Republicans surveyed were more likely to be worried: 31 percent of Democrats said they were not concerned at all about fraudulent votes, as opposed to only 5 percent of Republicans. The poll surveyed 1,300 U.S. citizens in web-based interviews from Oct. 15-18. The margin of error was 3.9 percentage points.

A separate poll, this one conducted last month, by the Associated PressNORC Center for Public Affairs Research, found half of all those with a favorable opinion of Trump said they have little to no confidence in the integrity of the vote count.

Is voter fraud a big problem?

No. While there have been isolated cases of voter fraud in the U.S., there is no evidence of it being widespread.

Trump talked in the debate about "millions of people that are registered to vote that shouldn't be registered to vote." That was a reference to a 2012 Pew Research study that found that about 24 million voter registrations — or one of every eight — were no longer valid or significantly inaccurate.

The report found that more than 1.8 million dead people were listed as voters and that about 2.75 million people were registered in more than one state. But it also cited no evidence that those errors had contributed to significant voter fraud.

"Our election system today is more secure than it's ever been," said Jon Husted, secretary of state in Ohio. A Republican who has said he will vote for Trump, Husted said he was "confident elections would run smoothly" in his state.

What prevents voter fraud?

Rigging an election would demand a widespread, nationwide effort with the two major parties colluding at every level. Top election officials in 29 states are Republicans, including in battlegrounds like Florida, North Carolina and Nevada.

Elections in the United States are held in open spaces, not in back rooms, and ordinary citizens serve as election officials. In many states, the workers, who receive training before Election Day, are drawn evenly from supporters of both parties. Voting machines are not connected to the Internet, and the vast majority of ballots will be cast on systems that allow for a paper record to verify electronic results.

Poll workers and election officials are empowered to flag any voting irregularity. Both candidates usually have scores of lawyers on call to challenge any behavior. In most states, there are "poll observers" in each county who have been chosen and trained by both the Republican and Democratic Parties to watch for problems or efforts to disenfranchise voters during the voting process. The poll observers are allowed to watch the poll workers and other election officials.

The FBI released a statement Tuesday saying that FBI agents work with federal, state and local officials to ensure a fair election process.

How do I know the count is fair?

Every jurisdiction has multiple overlapping systems in place to ensure fair vote counts, according to the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law.

The process of counting the votes is not done on systems connected to the Internet and tabulation systems are not connected to a single network, according to the National Association of Secretaries of State. Ballots are tabulated in public spaces.

Representatives for the political parties and the candidates literally watch the election officials count the votes. They also later participate in what is called a public canvass where the election results are gone over again to make sure they are right.

According to the bipartisan federal Election Assistance Commission: "This involves accounting for every absentee ballot, every early voting ballot, every ballot cast on Election Day, every provisional ballot, every changed ballot and every overseas and military ballot."

Richard Hasen, an election-law expert at the University of California at Irvine, said that counting votes at county offices and other places is "a transparent act with Republicans, Democrats and good government groups watching the counting."

"When voting anomalies occur, generally because of human error, they are quickly caught and publicized on Twitter, and then corrected," Hasen wrote last week in an article in Slate.

Are dead people voting?

No. Wendy Weiser, head of the democracy program at the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University Law School, says this has been debunked repeatedly. "There have been a handful of cases where votes have been cast in the name of dead people, and those have typically been minuscule in scale (like someone voting in the name of his or her recently deceased spouse) or involved ballotbox stuffing by unscrupulous election insiders," Weiser said.

She added: "There has been no incident in over a century in which people were able to impact an election by mobilizing fraudsters to impersonate dead people at the polls."

Deceased voters do linger on the voter rolls, as the Pew Center on the States has documented, Weiser said. But voter registration systems need to be modernized to fix the problem.

How hard is it to vote more than once?

Extremely hard, according to election experts. Hasen said there is "zero evidence" this kind of fraud has occurred regularly and that you would have to vote multiple times on a massive scale to influence the election.

Hasen said that the only recent instance he knows involving multiple voting concerned a supporter of Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker and other Wisconsin Republicans. "This man registered and voted about a dozen times in a few elections in multiple jurisdictions," Hasen said. "He was caught and literally pleaded insanity, because such a plan is literally insane."

How about people impersonating others?

Experts say this would be an inefficient way to rig an election, given the fraud would have to be conducted one voter at a time, and would only be effective in places where the race is close enough that the outcome could be swayed. Studies have shown voter impersonation to be quite rare.

In one of the most comprehensive studies on voter fraud, Loyola Law School professor Justin Levitt, who is now the deputy assistant attorney general in the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division, found only 31 incidents of voter impersonation out of more than a billion ballots cast between 2000 and 2014.

Another study by the Brennan Center for Justice found that many reports of people voting twice or ballots being cast on behalf of dead people were largely the result of clerical errors that suggested wrongdoing when none had occurred. Weiser said: "You are more likely to be struck by lightning, more likely to see a UFO, than to be a victim of voter fraud."

Does requiring IDs combat fraud?

Experts note that fraud, when it occurs, usually involves absentee ballots or voter registration — problems that could not be solved by requiring an ID at the polls. Supporters of laws requiring voters to show photo identification at the polls say such laws are needed to combat voter fraud.

Also important to note: The courts have largely found there is little documented evidence of voter fraud. In a decision finding Texas' photo ID law was discriminatory, a federal appeals court noted there were two convictions related to in-person voter fraud out of 20 million votes cast in the decade before the law was enacted.

Is voter fraud the same as election fraud?

Other types of fraud, or "rigging," are possible, such as voting machines being manipulated to report false results. So-called "ballot stuffing" would be election fraud, rather than voter fraud, because it would be orchestrated by someone who has gained access to the election administration system. Experts say federal elections would be much more difficult to influence this way because of the hundreds of thousands of polling places.

That also holds true for any effort by hackers to influence this year's presidential election. Experts say it's unlikely a hacker could change votes, but one might be able to delete voters from registration files, triggering confusion and long lines at the polls.
Copyright, 2016, Omaha World-Herald. All Rights Reserved.
