
60 election observers will be at Nebraska polling places to ensure registered voters can cast ballots
Newspaper November 1, 2016 | Omaha World-Herald: Web Edition Articles (NE)
Author: Joe Duggan Section: Nebraska 295 Words
60 election observers will be at Nebraska polling places to ensure registered voters can cast ballots
LINCOLN — About 60 volunteer election observers will fan out at polling places in 10 Nebraska counties to ensure that registered voters are able to cast ballots according to law.

The trained, nonpartisan volunteers will work up to 90 shifts Tuesday under a national program sponsored by the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law.

The volunteers will focus on making sure that voters are not improperly turned away from polling places. They also will provide assistance to any voter who needs help finding the proper polling place.

The volunteers are organized and trained by Nebraskans for Civic Reform, a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization that works to make elections more accessible.

Bri McLarty Huppert, director of voting rights for the group, said that in the past, observers helped prevent a polling place from closing its doors before the 8 p.m. voting deadline.

In addition, Nebraskans for Civic Reform filed a complaint in 2012 after poll workers in Douglas County prevented dozens of voters from casting provisional ballots because the voters did not bring along identification numbers printed on their registration documents. A state review of the complaint determined that the voters were turned away improperly.

A record 1.21 million Nebraskans have registered to vote in the 2016 election.

Nebraskans for Civic Reform has communicated with the Secretary of State's Office and county election commissioners about their observation project, McLarty Huppert said.

Voters who think their rights have been violated at the polls can call in reports on Election Day at 1-866-687-8683.

Secretary of State John Gale said Tuesday that his staff will be on standby during the election to answer questions and receive complaints of voter fraud. Questions and complaints can be made by calling the voter fraud unit at 1-888-727-0007. Voters also can call Gale's office at 1-402-471-2555.

joe.duggan@owh.com, 402-473-9587
Copyright, 2016, Omaha World-Herald. All Rights Reserved.
