
Patients' votes need scrutiny, state told
Newspaper October 14, 2016 | Omaha World-Herald: Web Edition Articles (NE)
Author: EMILY NOHRWORLD-HERALD BUREAU Section: Sunrise 564 Words
Patients' votes need scrutiny, state told
VOTER FRAUD

LINCOLN — Nebraska lawmakers need to do more to ensure the state's most vulnerable citizens don't become victims of voter fraud, while still protecting their voting rights, a legislative committee was told Thursday.

Carol Tritsch voted by absentee ballot in elections for the nearly 20 years she lived in an Omaha nursing home, her niece Emily Wynn told the Legislature's Government, Military and Veterans Affairs Committee.

But Tritsch, who suffered asphyxia at birth, was a people pleaser who functioned at about a 7-year-old child's level. She loved to count change and color.

"I guarantee you that never once would this have been Carol's vote, but it would've been (that of) the person helping her," Wynn said.

Tritsch's family believes she was exploited, and it wants to make sure other families' loved ones aren't being influenced in voting, too.

Others at the hearing questioned the legal consequences of stripping the right to vote from someone with diminished capacity. They also wondered at what point a voter is declared incompetent, particularly those with memory issues who may have good and bad days. And they cautioned against setting a threshold of when a voter has had a guardian appointed.

Omaha State Sen. Sara Howard asked for the interim study hearing at the request of Wynn, a constituent. Sen. John Murante of Gretna, chairman of the committee, said he believes the matter deserves legal research.

"I think there's a problem to address here," he said.

Sen. Dave Bloomfield of Hoskins agreed, saying that he was advised when running for office to be nice to nursing home staff, presumably because of their influence over residents. "This is out there," he said.

The concern is likely to become more widespread as the population ages and more elderly people move into extended care facilities.

The Nebraska Constitution disqualifies people from voting if they are declared non compos mentis, or mentally incompetent, by the court. But it's a little-known route that's been rarely used in recent years.

State law prohibits anyone from improperly assisting someone with his or her ballot. But state law allows election officials to train others to administer ballots to residents of nursing homes and hospitals on request.

Brad Meurrens, a public policy specialist for Disability Rights Nebraska, said any change to Nebraska law cannot be so broad that it takes away rights of people who are capable. "This is a very fine line issue," he said.

Meurrens suggested that efforts to combat fraud should target the perpetrators, not the victims. That might mean educating staff members of nursing facilities about providing voting assistance, he said.

Spike Eickholt, government liaison for the ACLU of Nebraska, said that local government officials could provide more direct assistance to voters who are residents of nursing homes.

Mary Ellen Metcalfe, Carol's sister and co-guardian, said she was very involved in Carol's life, yet wasn't aware Carol was registered to vote until about a year before she died in 2013 at age 75.

Metcalfe said she believes guardians or family of residents should be alerted if their loved one is registered to vote, and should have the choice to help them vote, along with a neutral party.

Wynn said she sees the fine line between protecting one's right to vote and protecting vulnerable citizens.

"At what point in the decline is it absolutely not going to be their vote, and you're just setting them up to have their vote hijacked?" she said.

emily.nohr@owh.com, 402-473-9581
Copyright, 2016, Omaha World-Herald. All Rights Reserved.
