
Trump's busy first week: a summary
Newspaper January 29, 2017 | Omaha World-Herald: Web Edition Articles (NE)
Author: — WorldHerald staff writers and press services Section: Sunrise 1032 Words
Trump's busy first week: a summary
President Donald Trump began his first week in office focusing on jobs, and ended it with a phone conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin. In between, he touched on a dizzying and divisive array of issues: a border wall, foreign trade, torture, oil pipelines, immigration restrictions and voter fraud, all aiming to show he will deliver on promises he has made to supporters.— World-Herald staff writers and press services

Abortion

Trump signed an executive order reinstating the "Mexico City policy" that banned overseas funding to groups that provide abortions or abortion referrals. Every Republican president since Ronald Reagan has supported the basics of the policy. But once the White House released the language of the order it became clear that the ban would apply not only to about $600 million worth of U.S. family planning funds, as in the past, but also to all U.S. global health funding — about $9.5 billion worth. The language could reshape foreign aid.

Agriculture Department

A U.S. Department of Agriculture research agency last week banned the release of news, photos and other material to the public; then, amid criticism, appeared set to walk back the order. In a memo to employees at the USDA's Agricultural Research Service, Chief of Staff Sharon Drumm said the agency would immediately cease releasing any "publicfacing" documents. Later, the USDA's acting deputy secretary said he would ask the research service to rescind the memo. "Frankly I don't understand what the basis for the ARS email was," said Michael Young, the acting deputy secretary.

Border wall

The White House says Trump and Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto agreed on the phone Friday to work out differences on a border wall "as part of a comprehensive discussion" on their bilateral relationship. Trump campaigned on a pledge to build a wall and have Mexico pay for it. But Peña Nieto has repeatedly said his country won't pay for the wall. The two leaders were supposed to meet in Washington next week, but the Mexican president scrapped the visit. Before the two talked on the phone Friday, Trump tweeted: "Mexico has taken advantage of the U.S. for long enough." He added that "massive trade deficits & little help on the very weak border must change, NOW!" Trump has also ordered cuts in federal grants for immigrantprotecting "sanctuary cities" and a boost in the number of border patrol agents and immigration officers, pending congressional approval.

Cabinet

Trump's nominees for top posts are working their way through the approval pipeline. They probably will all be approved. Only four are on the job now: CIA Director Mike Pompeo, Defense Secretary James Mattis, Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly and U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley

EPA

The Trump administration is scrutinizing reports and data published by scientists at the Environmental Protection Agency, and new work is under a "temporary hold" before it can be released. Trump is considering large cuts to the agency's size and budget.

Foreign trade

Trump announced his intention to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership and renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement. This order was mostly Trump telling the world that the United States is rethinking its approach to international commerce. It didn't impose tariffs or export subsidies or make any other changes to America's foreign trade posture.

Hiring freeze

Trump announced a freeze on new federal hires. But his memorandum exempted the military and anyone deemed vital to national security or public safety, and it lasts only 90 days; in fact, a separate order a few days later called for the hiring of 10,000 new immigration officers and 5,000 Border Patrol agents.

Immigration

Trump signed an executive action limiting the arrival of refugees into the United States by instituting what he has called "extreme vetting" of immigrants. He said the process will keep "radical Islamic terrorists" out of the United States. The president said he wants to admit to the United States only people who will support the country.

Jobs

Trump plans to create a council of business leaders as part of a "manufacturing jobs initiative." Boeing CEO Dennis Muilenburg, Tesla head Elon Musk and General Electric's Jeff Immelt will join 25 other executives and labor leaders in the group. He also says his border wall with Mexico will increase U.S. hiring.

Obamacare

Trump signed an executive order that seeks to "ease the burdens" of the Affordable Care Act, otherwise known as Obamacare. The order allows the head of the Department of Health and Human Services, or any other agency with authority under the law, to not enforce regulations that impose a financial burden on a state, company or individual. Republicans are vowing to repeal the law but haven't offered an alternative.

Pipelines

Trump signed a memorandum undoing former President Barack Obama's rejection of the Keystone XL pipeline. That pipeline would transport crude oil from Canada through seven states, including Nebraska. Trump also directed the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to expedite the Dakota Access pipeline, which goes through 18 Iowa counties and which Native American tribes and environmentalists have protested. The actions underscore Trump's lack of interest in appeasing environmentalists, whom he described as "out of control."

Supreme Court

Federal Appeals Court Judges Thomas Hardiman, 51, and Neil Gorsuch, 49, have emerged as the front-runners as Trump prepares to make his first Supreme Court nomination this week, according to a person familiar with the selection process. Trump said his pick for Supreme Court justice will be someone "Christians will love." Hardiman and Gorsuch have met with Trump, as has William Pryor, another appellate court judge who remains in contention, the person said.

Torture

Trump continued to maintain that torture works on terrorism suspects, but he said he's giving his defense secretary power to "override" his views. Trump said Defense Secretary James Mattis doesn't believe torture, or a technique called waterboarding that simulates drowning, is an effective tool for obtaining information. Trump said "I don't necessarily agree," but that Mattis "will override, because I'm giving him that power." Torture is prohibited by the international Geneva Conventions.

Voter fraud probe

Trump declared that he is ordering a "major investigation" into voter fraud, raising the prospect of a federal government probe into a widely debunked claim. All 50 states and the District of Columbia have finalized their election results with no reports of the kind of widespread fraud that Trump alleges.
Copyright, 2017, Omaha World-Herald. All Rights Reserved.
