
OUR SOCIAL FABRIC'S FUTURE
Newspaper October 16, 2016 | Omaha World-Herald: Web Edition Articles (NE)
Author: Staff Writer Section: Sunrise 1817 Words
OUR SOCIAL FABRIC'S FUTURE
Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump offer voters a real choice on issues that shape everyday lives. Actual ideas are in play, as difficult as it can be to see them through the surreal layers of the 2016 presidential campaign. Many of the issues go to the core of American society. Gun ownership. Race and policing. Immigration. The candidates have starkly different views. You have 23 days to decide which nominee you prefer.— The Associated Press, Politico

RACE AND POLICING

Policing in the nation's minority communities has been a flashpoint since the deaths of Michael Brown in Missouri in 2014 and others. The increasing number of graphic photos and videos depicting the deaths of black men, women and children at the hands of police officers has sparked unrest around the nation. The perception that law enforcement officers are rarely, if ever, punished for what some consider unethical behavior, brutality and even criminal acts against black Americans has led to the rise of new social and civil rights movements like Black Lives Matter. Police in turn have complained of being unfairly stereotyped as the enemy by minority communities in which they serve. They have noted that they've increased monitoring of officer behavior through body cameras and increased training for officers. The relationship between minority communities and majority white police forces is turning into one of the most visible civil rights issues of this age.

Clinton has offered proposals such as legislation that would help end racial profiling, provide federal matching funds for more police body cameras and overhaul mandatory minimum sentencing. She has been criticized by activists for some of her positions — she once supported "superpredator" laws. (She has expressed regret for talking about superpredators.) During the Democratic primary she used the phrase "all lives matter" — words that some have invoked as pushback against the concerns of Black Lives Matter while others have uttered the phrase without intending to challenge the movement.

Trump favors "law and order." He has said some of the videos and photos depicting the deaths of people of color at the hands of police were "hard to witness," but has called police "the most mistreated people in this country." Trump endorsed a former New York City police policy called "stop and frisk" after unrest in Charlotte, North Carolina, over the police shooting of Keith Lamont Scott. A federal judge ruled the procedure violated the rights of minorities.

HOMEGROWN EXTREMISM

Radical Islamic militancy overseas has inspired a series of attacks on U.S. soil. The culprits typically have no ties to foreign terrorist organizations, no explicit directions from overseas and no formal training — unlike the operatives of 9/11. Instead, they've blended into American society and skated beneath the radar of federal investigators. The fear of seemingly random attacks has shaken the American psyche. How can the U.S. defend itself from these jihadi-inspired homegrown attacks? The debate is framed by those calling for more investigative powers for law enforcement and the intelligence community, on the one hand, and those trying to protect citizens' right to privacy.

Clinton says Muslim-Americans may be the best defense against extremism in their communities. She says they can prevent young people from joining jihadis and notify law enforcement when they hear of planned attacks or suspected radicalization. Clinton would prohibit people on terrorist watch lists from being able to buy weapons. She also wants wider use of programs to identify signs of radicalization and counter jihadi ideology.

Trump had proposed a freeze on foreign Muslims entering the U.S., though that would have done little to stop radicalized American citizens. Now, instead, he's proposed a hold on immigration from areas of the world with a history of extremist violence against the U.S. and allies.

GUNS

The right to bear arms is fundamental to the U.S., carved into the Constitution. But Americans are confronting how far those rights extend. Do Americans have the right to have AR-style firearms, the long guns with a military look used in the past year in several mass shootings? Should every gun buyer have to pass a background check? The next president will get to nominate at least one member of a Supreme Court that's closely divided on how to read the Second Amendment, and the next Congress will continue to confront gun-rights issues. In a world that feels increasingly violent, America's cowboy culture and the Second Amendment are under the microscope. Voters are asking what will make them safer, more guns or fewer? Clinton and Trump are like bookends on gun issues.

Clinton, whose husband as president successfully pushed for a 10-year ban on assault-type weapons, has advocated renewing that ban. She's also called for measures to ensure background checks are completed before a gun sale goes forward, mandating such checks for gun-show sales and repealing a law that shields gun manufacturers from liability.

Trump casts himself as an ardent protector of the Second Amendment and proclaims that if more "good guys" were armed with firearms there would be fewer gun tragedies. He even went a step further than the National Rifle Association after the June shooting at a nightclub in Orlando, Florida, suggesting that if it weren't a gun-free zone, a patron would have been able to stop the bloodshed. Trump also has vowed that he would end gun-free zones at schools. He also supports reciprocity among all 50 states for concealed-carry permits.

LGBT ISSUES

Same-sex marriage is now the law of the land, but there are other battlegrounds related to civil rights and nondiscrimination protections for lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgender people. Two polarizing questions: What sort of access should transgender people have to public bathrooms? And are the advances for LGBT rights infringing on the religious freedom of some Americans? Whoever wins the presidency can only do so much to influence national LGBT-rights policies, unless, perhaps, if the winner's party sweeps control of Congress. The proposed Equality Act is unlikely to advance through a Republican-controlled House. And the nationwide legality of same-sex marriage is unlikely to be threatened. On some fronts, however, the outcome of the presidential race could have a major impact — for example, in how aggressively federal agencies work to expand LGBT rights.

Clinton is a staunch supporter of LGBT rights; she has endorsed the Equality Act, a proposed federal law that would provide comprehensive protections against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. Clinton would probably maintain or intensify the Obama administration's efforts to bolster transgender rights. This could mean pressure on school districts to let transgender students use school bathrooms based on their gender identity.

Trump says he would be a better president for gays than Clinton, yet major LGBT-rights groups strongly oppose him. Among the reasons: He has balked at endorsing same-sex marriage, his evangelical advisory board has included prominent opponents of advances in LGBT rights and running mate Mike Pence, Indiana's governor, last year signed a law that critics said would allow businesses to deny service to gay people for religious reasons. Trump has told conservatives he'd place a high priority on religious liberty and would seek to protect Christians from having to violate their beliefs. Among the types of cases in question: Whether wedding photographers or bakers who oppose same-sex marriage should be penalized for refusing to provide services for a same-sex wedding.

IMMIGRATION

An estimated 11 million people are living and in many cases working in the United States illegally. The questions of what to with them and how to curb future illegal immigration have been major campaign topics. The long debate over immigration in Congress has focused on which should come first: stiffer enforcement at the border and inside the country or a path to legal status for the millions of people who are already a part of their communities. Illegal immigration has remained at nearly 40-year lows for the last several years. Nonetheless the Mexican border remains a focal point for those who argue that the country is not secure.

Clinton has pledged to push for an overhaul that would enable citizenship — not just legal status — for many living in the country illegally. She has also said she would expand programs that protect some groups of immigrants from deportation, including those who arrived as children and the parents of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents. President Barack Obama's effort to shield parents from deportation is on hold after the Supreme Court deadlocked on a decision in a case challenging the president's authority to expand the deportation protection program.

Trump's campaign has illegal immigration at its center. It's a source of his strength among supporters, contention among critics and confusion over what he really intends to do. Trump vows to build a wall along the Mexican border complete with a "big beautiful door." He vows Mexico will pay for the wall; Mexico vows it won't. Trump had repeatedly pledged to deport all the people living in the country illegally. Now he'd focus on deporting people who have committed crimes beyond their immigration offenses. As for the rest, he's proposing no path to legal status while they are in the U.S.

VOTING RIGHTS

Who gets to vote, and how easily, matters because it can determine who wins elections. Citing a need to combat fraud, Republican-controlled legislatures are tightening voter laws by limiting early voting and same-day registration, by requiring IDs at polling places and more. In 2013 the Supreme Court invalidated a key provision of the 1965 Voting Rights Act, which required mostly Southern states with a history of discrimination to get advance federal approval to change election laws. The court decision made it easier for states to impose new restrictions. This year, 17 states were set to have voter restrictions. The Obama Justice Department has challenged the laws. In recent weeks, lower courts temporarily staved off some of the toughest requirements in North Carolina, Texas and Wisconsin after judges found no evidence of rampant voter fraud. The issue is particularly salient for black Americans, who for much of U.S. history were disenfranchised. It's also become more partisan with the rapid growth of minorities such as Latino and Asian immigrants, who tilt Democratic. States and the lower courts largely shape who can vote. But the next president will set the tone on federal oversight.

Clinton is urging Congress to restore the Voting Rights Act. She seeks a national standard of at least 20 days of early in-person voting and urges automatic voter registration for eligible 18-year olds. Clinton backs voting rights for ex-felons. Her campaign has joined lawsuits to stop policies that may burden minorities, including in Arizona, where voters had to wait hours in March after cuts in polling locations.

Trump has emphasized the dangers of voter fraud, calling America's electoral system "out of control" with people who are "voting many, many times." He has said — without evidence — that dead voters helped elect Obama. Trump opposes same-day voter registration, saying it could allow people to "sneak in through the cracks." This month he alleged that the federal government is allowing illegal immigrants to flow into the U.S. so they can vote.
Copyright, 2016, Omaha World-Herald. All Rights Reserved.
