
Why Oregonians don’t have to worry about votes
Newspaper October 19, 2016 | Oregonian, The (Portland, OR)
Author: Dana Tims The Oregonian/OregonLive Section: A 288 Words
Page: 11
Why Oregonians don’t have to worry about votes
The explosive charge that November’s election results could somehow be rigged has thrown yet another snag into a presidential campaign already rife with twists and turns.

National voting experts have dismissed the assertion, saying that all available studies show instance of actual voter fraud to be almost non-existent.

The Oregonian/OregonLive contacted both state and federal elections experts.

Based on those interviews, here are eight reasons why Oregonians don’t have to worry about their votes.

We vote by mail:Because Oregon is a completely vote-by-mail state, without voting machines, there is a paper trail for every ballot, said Molly Woon, spokeswoman for the Oregon Secretary of State’s Office. This enables officials to track each ballot from the time it’s sent, received by the county and counted by local elections officials.

Different counties, different counting:Different counties in Oregon use different tabulation machines, Woon said. This varietymakes it more difficult to infiltrate the system overall.

Public voter rolls:Voter lists are public records in Oregon, meaning anyone can look at them to ensure onlyregistered voters are participating.

Checking signatures: Each signature on everyballot is verified by an elections workertrained in signature verification.

They check their work:The state conducts a random hand count “audit” after the election to guarantee that tabulation systems are working correctly.

Local control:In Oregon, elections are run by local elections officials who know their communities and are directly accountable to local voters.

Where hackers can’t reach:“We don’t use an online system to count votes,” Woon said. “Ballots come into county office, where they are processed and scanned. Only then are the numbers uploaded.”

National safety, too:“We have such a decentralized system in this country that someone can’t just hack into one machine and have it make any difference,” said Gilda Daniels, a voting-rights expert.
Copyright (c) 2016 Oregonian Publishing Co.
