
A
Newspaper November 30, 2016 | Oregonian, The (Portland, OR)
Section: A 338 Words
Page: 07
A
22 million gallons of Salem sewage dumped in the Willamette

Heavy rains in Salem forced the city to release more than 22 million gallons of raw sewage into the Willamette River.

The 24-hour rainfall level passed the legal threshold of 2.61 inches Friday, overwhelming Salem’s sewer system. Oregon Department of Environmental Quality spokeswoman Katherine Benenati says the city experienced pump failures at an additional treatment facility before it chose to release the sewage into the river.

City spokesman Mike Gotterba says the release was necessary to keep sewage from backing up and flooding streets and basements. Signs posted at the creek and the Willamette River warning people to avoid the water were removed Monday after water quality testing showed normal bacterial levels.

Asotin County investigating 2 cases of possible voter fraud

The Asotin County prosecutor is investigating two cases of possible voter fraud in Washington’s Nov. 8 general election.

Prosecutor Ben Nichols said Monday he is reviewing documents to determine whether felony fraud charges will be filed in Asotin County Superior Court.

The Lewiston Tribune reported the cases include a 63-year-old Clarkston man who may have signed his recently deceased wife's name on a ballot envelope, and a 62-year-old Idaho resident who allegedly attempted to vote in Washington and Idaho.

Subpoenas issued for hearing on fatal Pasco police shooting

A coroner's inquest into the death of a man who was fatally shot by Pasco, Washington, police after he was throwing rocks is on track to begin in two weeks.

Franklin County Coroner Dan Blasdel says subpoenas have been sent to about a dozen people who will be questioned at the hearing starting Dec. 12. The inquest into Antonio Zambrano-Montes’ death comes after several delays and opposition from law enforcement.

Zambrano-Montes was shot by three officers on Feb. 10, 2015. The Mexican national was high on meth and throwing rocks at officers at the time.

Prosecutors have declined to charge the officers, saying the evidence didn’t support convictions. The inquest jury may make recommendations to prosecutors, but its decisions are advisory only. — Associated Press
Copyright (c) 2016 Oregonian Publishing Co.




