
Hillary Clinton campaign will join recount effort as Donald Trump calls it a 'scam'
Newspaper November 26, 2016 | Oregonian, The: Web Edition Articles (Portland, OR)
Author: Eder Campuzano Section: Trending 453 Words
Hillary Clinton campaign will join recount effort as Donald Trump calls it a 'scam'
As Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein pushes for recounts in key battleground states won by President-elect Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton's campaign has said it will also join efforts to audit the vote in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.

Marc Elias, the Clinton campaign's legal counsel, wrote on Medium that the former secretary of state plans to "participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to all sides."

According to Elias, the campaign has ruled out "any possibility of outside interference," but intends to monitor the audit process nonetheless.

Meanwhile, Trump called the audit a "scam," urging voters to "accept this result and look to the future."

"This is a scam by the Green Party for an election that has already been conceded, and the results of this election should be respected instead of being challenged and abused, which is exactly what Jill Stein is doing," Trump said in a statement.

In the weeks leading up to Election Day, Trump repeatedly told his supporters that a loss on Nov. 9 would be an indicator of widespread voter fraud. The president-elect at times said he wouldn't concede, fueling speculation of what happens in presidential elections when there's no concession.

(The short answer: Nothing.)

Stein mounted a fundraising campaign to raise the $7 million necessary to pay for recounts in the three battleground states. Shortly after midnight on the first day, the Green Party nominee had raised enough to audit the results in Wisconsin, which had the earliest deadline to start the process.

Stein on Saturday criticized Clinton for the former secretary of state's decision to participate in the recount process.

"You cannot be on-again, off-again about democracy," Stein tweeted.

Why would Hillary Clinton--who conceded the election to Donald Trump--want #Recount2016? You cannot be on-again, off-again about democracy.

-- Dr. Jill Stein (@DrJillStein) November 26, 2016

Should audits overturn the results in Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan, Clinton's electoral votes would total 278, handing her the keys to the White House. Experts -- and even the Clinton campaign -- expect that won't be the case.

Audit proponents are meeting the initiative with a collective shrug, a "Why not?" attitude and citing Clinton's popular vote lead -- which is moving past 2 million -- as a sign of hope.

Meanwhile, Trump backers including senior adviser Kellyanne Conway have taken to calling Clinton and Stein "sore losers."

First comment from Trump senior adviser Kellyanne Conway on Clinton joining Wisconsin recount: "What a pack of sore losers." pic.twitter.com/fFAGRMn4FH

-- Kevin Cirilli (@kevcirilli) November 26, 2016

--Eder Campuzano

503.221.4344

@edercampuzano

ecampuzano@oregonian.com
Copyright 2016 The Oregonian. All Rights Reserved.
