
Wyden blasts Trump's voter fraud claims as a 'fake crisis'
Newspaper January 25, 2017 | Oregonian, The: Web Edition Articles (Portland, OR)
Author: Gordon R. Friedman Section: Politics 278 Words
Wyden blasts Trump's voter fraud claims as a 'fake crisis'
U.S. Sen. Ron Wyden took to Twitter Wednesday morning to criticize President Donald J. Trump for calling for a "major investigation" into voter fraud.

Wyden said voter fraud is a "fake crisis designed to steal Americans' right to vote." The country would be better off adopting an Oregon-style vote-by-mail system, he said. The Democrat has three-times introduced national vote-by-mail legislation with no success.

I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and....

-- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017

even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time). Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures!

-- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017

Vote fraud is a fake crisis designed to steal Americans' right to vote. There is NO evidence of significant voting fraud. #factsmatter

-- Ron Wyden (@RonWyden) January 25, 2017

Trump has repeatedly said millions of people illegally voted for Hillary Clinton in last year's election, costing him the popular vote win. The claim has been debunked time and again.

In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally

-- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 27, 2016

Secretaries of State and elections experts say there is no evidence that millions illegally cast ballots during the election. Studies purporting to show widespread voter fraud have been criticized for using faulty data. Others, showing the possibility of fraud but finding no evidence of illegal voting, have had their conclusions misstated by some politicians.

-- Gordon R. Friedman

gfriedman@oregonian.com; 503-221-8209
Copyright 2017 The Oregonian. All Rights Reserved.
