Long lines, not fraud, mark day at the polls
Newspaper November 9, 2016 | Philadelphia Inquirer, The (PA)
Author: Aubrey Whelan Section: NATIONAL 1194 Words
Page: A11
Long lines, not fraud, mark day at the polls
This was key turf. For months, Philadelphia and its suburbs had been at the center of national anxiety over this edgy, exhausting, ugly campaign. Political ads flooded TV screens. Republicans cried voter fraud; Democrats worried about voter intimidation. But the sun was bright on Tuesday morning, and the lines were long at the polls - longer than many election workers had seen in some time - as Philadelphians waited patiently to cast their votes at last. And at the conclusion of a campaign that defied normalcy, the act of voting in the Philadelphia region was about as routine as it gets here. The District Attorney's Election Task Force investigated almost exactly the same number of polling-place incidents it did in 2012. Poll workers reported enormous turnout but little strife. State officials said there were no reported incidents that impacted voting. With interest keen, Philadelphia-area voters often had to cope with long lines and tedious waits, but not with discouraging threats or evident attempts to cast fake ballots. Norman Carol, 88, a retired concert master and violinist with the Philadelphia Orchestra, showed up before 7 a.m., the time when polls opened, at his polling place inside Temple Beth Hillel in Wynnewood.The lines were already out the door. "I'll tell you what I'm going to vote for - no more commercials!" he said. At 7 a.m., the lines already were 40 minutes long at the polling place at Bensalem High School in Bucks County. Wayne Lewis, 72, a school board member, said the turnout was the highest he's seen in 20 years of working the polls. About 8:30 a.m., 30 people were in line to vote at Radnor Middle School, in Radnor Township on the Main Line. At Roberts Elementary School in Upper Merion Township, Montgomery County, the lines persisted well past the morning rush, and the wait time at 11 a.m. still was 30 minutes. City Commissioner Lisa Deeley said she expected Philadelphia turnout would be equal to or surpass 2008 numbers, when 68 percent of the city voted. Republican nominee Donald Trump had warned voters to monitor "certain areas" in Philadelphia - divisions in heavily black, heavily Democratic neighborhoods where not a single vote had been cast for Mitt Romney in 2012. Philadelphia officials on both sides of the aisle condemned the remarks. Others worried that the remarks would incite vigilante election observers to intimidate voters. But in North Philadelphia, election workers across several wards reported no major issues through midafternoon. "Been great," said Cynthia McKenney-Pittman, judge of elections in Ward 11, Division 1, on the 1700 block of Lehigh Avenue. "We've been calm all day." Republican leaders in the city said some minority observers were turned away from polling places and took their complaints to Elections Court, though they said the number of incidents was similar to 2012. An Elections Court judge also ordered an investigation of a voting machine in Wissinoming where a Republican poll watcher said two ballots had been cast before polls opened. Cameron Kline, District Attorney Seth Williams' spokesman, said the kinds of incidents the election fraud task force investigated - from electioneering to machine issues to voter assistance - were also typical. In the polling place at the Girard Academic Music Program school at 22nd and Ritner Streets, where many wards are close to one-third Republican, turnout exceeded 50 percent in three divisions in the 26th Ward, 13th Division, by 1 p.m. A group of three older white voters who didn't want to give their names chanted "Trump! Trump! Trump!" at a reporter, and said it was time to end "the Clinton cartel."Gina Novelli, 51, a hospital patient services representative, voted Trump in the 39th Ward in South Philadelphia in hopes he would achieve secure borders and care for veterans. But she had gotten into an ugly fight with a friend over the campaign Monday night. "I've never seen anything like this," she said. In Fairhill, outside the polling place on North 11th Street, only a few campaign signs suggested that votes were being cast inside. Kids played basketball at a park across the street. Lawrence Roberts, 67, cast a vote for Hillary Clinton and said he hoped whatever the result, the country could move beyond a "very nasty" campaign. "We need to unite," he said, "instead of divide." At the tail end of a long, anxiety-filled campaign, many said they were relieved it would all soon be over. Some stopped to savor what they hoped would be a historic outcome. Christine Dorsey, 52, a home health-care worker from South Philadelphia, said she had already brought all five of her clients to vote by 4 p.m. She cast a vote for Clinton in the Wharton Square Rec Center. "I want to hear Hillary roar! No more bare feet in the kitchen and having babies," she said. "No more disrespecting us and making us into objects and taking our rights away." For others, Tuesday was significant on a different scale: They were casting their first votes. Shortly after the polls opened, John Cherry, 18, stood beside the voting booths in an elementary school in West Philadelphia with his grandfather Michael Horsey, a former member of the state House.Cherry, a freshman at Howard University, took the train home from Washington to vote for the first time. His grandfather told him to take his headphones off for a picture. "It feels really good," Cherry said. "It feels like I'm part of the process now."awhelan@philly.com 215-854-2961 @aubreyjwhelan Also contributing to this article were staff writers Craig R. McCoy, Mark Fazlollah, Jason Nark, Sam Wood, Alfred Lubrano, Martha Woodall, Susan Snyder, Aswin Mannepalli, Nancy Phillips, Mensah Dean, Linda Loyd, Chris Palmer, Samantha Melamed, Sofiya Ballin, Michael Matza, and Valerie Russ.

