
Trump appeals order against voter intimidation
Newspaper November 6, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The (Cleveland, OH)
Author: Eric Heisig eheisig@cleveland.com Section: News 462 Words
Page: A18
Trump appeals order against voter intimidation
Cincinnati — Donald Trump’s campaign has asked an appeals court to immediately suspend a Cleveland federal judge’s restraining order in a voter-intimidation case, saying the campaign would be harmed as Election Day nears.

The Republican presidential candidate’s campaign, in two briefs filed Saturday, says U.S. District Judge James Gwin’s order is not based on any actual voter intimidation or likely intimidating actions, but rather the mere possibility.

It says the Ohio Democratic Party, which filed the lawsuit and pushed for the order, did not provide any examples in its lawsuit or during a hearing on Friday.

The campaign asks the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati to immediately halt Gwin’s order and to have the full court hold an immediate hearing.

“… The order tramples upon core First Amendment freedoms. It imposes vague prohibitions against poorly defined categories of core political activity — talking to voters, giving information to voters, etc. — that guarantee hundreds (if not thousands) of Ohioans will be chilled from participating in our democratic process,” Trump campaign attorney Chad Readler wrote in a brief.

The appeals court directed the Democrats to file a response by the end of Saturday.

The lawsuit was filed last Sunday against state Republicans, Trump’s campaign and longtime Trump adviser Roger Stone. State Democrats said that they fear an aggressive presence from Trump supporters could discourage voters from the black community and other groups.

The Ohio Democratic Party used statements Trump and his surrogates have made at campaign stops as evidence of a conspiracy to suppress minority voting turnout.

Democrats filed similar lawsuits in other states. The Trump campaign’s brief points out that federal judges in Nevada and Arizona refused to grant restraining orders.

Gwin issued his order following a hearing Friday. The order restricts certain activities such as loitering at or near polling places without any intention of voting and handing out literature that says voter fraud is a crime.

Generally, the order says those to whom it applies must follow established Ohio laws on electioneering outside polling places.

Gwin wrote in his order that his intervention was necessary because “there is a legitimate possibility that particular laws may be imminently violated.”

He wrote that his order applies to “Trump, Stone, and [Stone’s organization] Stop the Steal — as well as their officers, agents, servants, and employees — and other individuals or groups, including groups associated with the Clinton for Presidency campaign.”

The broad swath this covers has caused some confusion as to exactly who is restricted from carrying out the actions he has forbidden, Readler said in his briefs.

“If the court’s Order appears puzzling to this Court, think of how it must appear to everyday Ohioans, none of whom were parties to the case, but all of whom are covered by the Order,” the brief says.
Copyright, 2016, The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
