Ohio secretary of state to appeal voter purging case to high court
Newspaper December 3, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The (Cleveland, OH)
Author: Robert Higgs bhiggs@cleveland .com Section: News 588 Words
Page: A5
Ohio secretary of state to appeal voter purging case to high court
Columbus — Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted will appeal a ruling that the state was improperly purging voters from its rolls, arguing that the process is important for election integrity.

“The current status of this case leaves one of our most important election safeguards in limbo,” Husted said in a statement. “I will ask the U.S. Supreme Court to reverse this unnecessary intrusion into our state’s elections process.”

A. Philip Randolph Institute, the American Civil Liberties Union Ohio and the Northeast Ohio Coalition for the Homeless sued Ohio, arguing that the state’s system for culling voter registration lists violated federal elections laws because it punished voters for inactivity.

Elections boards weed out ineligible voters — those who have died or been found incompetent or convicted of felonies or who have moved from the voting jurisdiction. But Ohio’s process for years has also been triggered by lack of voting.

The plaintiffs argued that trigger violated specific provisions in the National Voting Rights Act of 1993 and the Help America Vote Act of 2002, which say registered voters may not be disqualified simply because they have not voted.

A federal district judge ruled in June that Ohio’s process was consistent with federal laws because voters are not removed solely for not voting. But in September, the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals overturned that decision, finding that the state’s process for removing voters was indeed illegal.

What happened during the election?

Voters not found in poll books were allowed to cast provisional ballots. That allowed elections boards time to check their information against past voting lists and databases after Election Day. If the voter was not dead or incarcerated and still lived in the county where they were most recently registered, the voter was assumed to have been purged for inactivity and the ballot was to be counted.

State Rep. Kathleen Clyde, a Democrat from Kent who often is at odds with Republican Husted on voting issues, said more than 7,500 voters who had been purged from the rolls voted in the General Election.

“Because of our long fight to count ballots and the persistence of voting rights advocates, the good news is that 7,515 illegally purged voters had their ballots counted instead of thrown out,” Clyde said in a statement. “If Secretary Husted had prevailed, those ballots would have been thrown out again and the provisional ballot count rate would have been the worst since Ken Blackwell ran the 2004 election.”

What happens now?

Voting for the November election was settled by a court order, but the case has not reached a final resolution.

That’s what Husted hopes the U.S. Supreme Court will provide.

“Proper voter roll maintenance, including the removal of deceased voters and those who have long since moved, is one of the pillars of ensuring fair elections,” Husted said.

“Ohio’s process for removing duplicate registrations and those of deceased and relocated voters has been consistent under both Republicans and Democrats for over two decades and has been one of our greatest defenses against voter fraud and abuse.”

The case isn’t just an Ohio issue. It involves how Ohio was interpreting specific provisions in federal voting rights laws, so it could affect voting in other states.

Whether the Supreme Court agrees to hear the case remains to be seen.
Copyright, 2016, The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
