
Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted slams voter fraud conspiracy article
Newspaper October 4, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Section: Open 299 Words
Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted slams voter fraud conspiracy article
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Move over, Snopes, there's a new conspiracy theory debunker on the case.

Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted issued a press release Tuesday refuting an online article claiming "tens of thousands" of Hillary Clinton ballots were found in a Franklin County warehouse.

The article, published Sept. 30 by Christian Times Newspaper, featured a photo of boxes allegedly full of Clinton ballots. Actually, the photo was taken in 2015 during the U.K. election.

The article stated the "likely goal was to slip the fake ballot boxes in with the real ballot boxes when they went to official election judges on November 8th."

Husted said the post is both false and intentionally misleading and, given the source, offends him as a Christian.

"A Christian myself, I take offense to reading such unbelievable lies from a publication alleging Christian ties," Husted said. "No one from this so-called-news outlet bothered to call the Franklin County Board of Elections or the Ohio Secretary of State's office to verify any facts. It was a deliberate attempt to deceive and mislead. We already get enough of that from the candidates. Enough already."

Popular urban legend debunker Snopes also found the article and others on the same website to be false.

The Franklin County Board of Elections debunked the story last week, pointing to numerous election security measures in place. For one, each ballot storage box is secured with a double lock that can only be unlocked by one Democrat and one Republican official.

"Claims falsely challenging the integrity of the elections administration are taken seriously as public confidence in the electoral process is important," spokesman Aaron Sellers said in a statement.
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
