
Judge’s order aims to head off voter intimidation
Newspaper November 5, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The (Cleveland, OH)
Author: Eric Heisig eheisig@cleveland .com Section: News 1082 Words
Page: A10
Judge’s order aims to head off voter intimidation
A federal judge on Friday issued a restraining order against Donald Trump’s campaign and longtime adviser Roger Stone to avoid “harassing or intimidating conduct” at polling places Tuesday on Election Day.

U.S. District Judge James Gwin’s order forbids Democrats and Republicans from taking many actions at or near polling places that he said could be seen as voter intimidation. His decision came after a hearing Friday that lasted more than two hours and saw him pressing a Trump attorney on why the candidate felt that voter fraud is rampant.

Even though what most of what Gwin included in his order is covered by certain provisions of Ohio law, the issuance of a restraining order means that a person or group who violates the order could be found in contempt and face sanctions.

Gwin wrote that “there is a legitimate possibility that particular laws may be imminently violated” and that “ordering compliance with those laws is appropriate.”

The order remains in place until voting for the presidential election is complete. It applies to Trump’s campaign, longtime Trump adviser Roger Stone and his groups, “as well as their officers, agents, servants, and employees — and other individuals or groups, including groups associated with the Clinton for Presidency campaign.”

Under the order, Democrats and Republicans are prohibited from:

* 3 Hindering or delaying voters from entering or exiting a polling place.

* 3 Conducting any unauthorized “poll watching” inside polling places and within 100 feet of a polling place, or within 10 feet of a voter in a line that extends beyond the boundar y. This includes challenging or questioning voters about their eligibility to vote, or training, organizing or directing others to do the same.

* 3 “Interrogating, admonishing, interfering with, or verbally harassing voters” at or near polling places, or telling others to do the same.

* 3 Handing out literature at or near polling places that says voter fraud is a crime and describing the penalties.

* 3 Gathering and loitering at and near polling places.

* 3 Following, taking photos or recording voters at or near polling places, or telling others to do the same.

* 3 Questioning or telling others to question voters at or near polling places “under the guise of the purported “exit polling” or “citizen journalist” operations organized and encouraged by Defendants Stone and [Stone’s organization] Stop the Steal.”

By Friday evening, Trump’s campaign had asked the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati to review the order.

The Ohio Democratic Party filed a lawsuit Sunday against the Ohio Republican Party, Trump’s campaign and Stone that said it fears that an aggressive presence from Trump supporters could discourage voters from the black community and other groups.

The judge issued the restraining order against Trump’s campaign and Stone, who has not responded to the lawsuit and did not have an attorney present. He did not order it against state Republicans, saying there was not enough evidence to show that a restraining order against them was needed.

Gwin also said the restraining order that the Democrats sought, which included disallowing Trump supporters from congregating and talking to voters 100 feet or more away from a polling place, was too broad.

Democrats filed similar lawsuits in Michigan, Pennsylvania, Nevada and Arizona.

As his election chances were faltering recently, Trump repeatedly claimed the election is “rigged” and said his supporters should visit polling places to ensure integrity within the election. The lawsuit says such tactics are being encouraged in Democratic strongholds like Cleveland.

It also says Stone and his organizations have recruited volunteers to watch polling places. He’s also encouraged the so-called “protectors” to download and print out “official looking identification badges” and to live-stream activities in November as they talk to voters about “election fraud.”

Elections officials from both parties, as well as independent experts, say that election fraud is very rare, and to the extent that it does happen, it occurs on a scale much too small to influence a national election.

While Gwin considered many issues during Friday’s hearing, he seemed most interested in Trump’s views on voter fraud, despite the overwhelming evidence that it is incredibly rare.

He seized on a quote Trump made at an Aug. 22 rally in Akron in which he said, “You’ve got to get everybody to go out and watch, and go out and vote. And when I say ‘watch,’ you know what I’m talking about, right?”

The judge asked Chad Readler, an attorney representing the Trump campaign, whether he actually believed, “as an officer of the court, that there is such a thing as voter fraud that impacts elections?”

Readler said after a bit of prodding, “Your honor, I don’t know. I’m not a political scientist and we’ve had elections that come down to coin flips because they’re tied. So in that race, if one vote was illegal, that illegal vote decided the race.”

Dawn Smalls, an attorney representing the Ohio Democratic Party, said that the people heeding Trump’s call “are not just citizens that are seeking to fulfill their civic duty.

“These are people that are specifically reacting to the racially tinged and racially charged language,” Smalls said “And these are the people that are being fed to the state parties. Not, you know, Republicans of a normal year …”

The state Republicans, Trump’s campaign and Stone maintain that they have not done nor are planning to do anything illegal. Attorneys for Trump’s campaign and the Republican Party argued that a restraining order is not necessary because many of the actions Democrats say they fear are already against the law.

Trump’s campaign also said the restraining order the Democrats wanted would chill free speech and impede the campaign’s ability to perform certain get-out-the-vote measures.

Ohio Democratic Party Chairman David Pepper said in a statement that “with this decision, Ohioans can feel confident that they will be able to make their voices heard in this election.”

Ohio Republican Party Chairman Matt Borges said in a statement that he was happy that Gwin found that there was not enough evidence to specifically include the party in the restraining order.

The statement also says that the Democrats’ “eleventh-hour publicity stunt backfired as the Hillary Clinton campaign is now also subject to the restraining order.” It does not note that the party’s actions, like many others, are also restricted by the restraining order.

Messages left for a Stone spokesman and Trump’s Ohio campaign staff were not returned.
Copyright, 2016, The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
