
Trump calls for voter-fraud probe; Ohio reacts
Newspaper January 26, 2017 | Plain Dealer, The (Cleveland, OH)
Section: News 299 Words
Page: A8
Trump calls for voter-fraud probe; Ohio reacts
President Donald Trump doubled down Wednesday on his fraudulent assertion that millions of immigrants in the country illegally gave Hillary Clinton her 2.8 million-ballot victory in the popular vote, saying he would order a “major investigation” and tighten voting controls.

“I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and ... even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time). Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures!” Trump Tweeted.

Of note, Trump’s legal team argued that there was no evidence of voter fraud when lawyers moved to stop the Midwestern recounts demanded by Green Party candidate Jill Stein.

And the response from at least one Republican official in charge of state voting procedures, Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted, was swift.

“We conducted a review 4 years ago in Ohio & already have a statewide review of 2016 election underway. Easy to vote, hard to cheat,” Husted Tweeted.

Trump’s Tweets will keep the focus on an issue that has already painted the new president as a liar. His press secretary, Sean Spicer, stood at the podium of the White House press room on Tuesday to acknowledge that Trump believes a conspiracy theory about which there is no evidence.

But Trump’s Twitter threat pushes the issue into the policy realm. Voting rights advocates have feared the president’s flight of fancy could be a precursor to a broad effort to limit access to the polls, especially for minorities and immigrants.

The new foray into such a sensitive topic is not likely to go over well with Republicans in Congress, who are boarding buses and trains to disembark Washington for Philadelphia and their annual policy retreat — this time with a Republican president and vice president who are expected to attend.
Copyright, 2017, The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
