
Sharing photos of your ballot illegal in Ohio, but officials not likely to prosecute over selfies
Newspaper October 18, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Author: Rachel Dissell, The Plain Dealer Section: Metro 863 Words
Sharing photos of your ballot illegal in Ohio, but officials not likely to prosecute over selfies
Cleveland, Ohio – Before you post that vote photo or a smiling selfie of you and your ballot, know that in Ohio you're probably committing a felony.

One that carries at least the possibility of time behind bars.

However, while sharing your ballot – whether on social media or otherwise – is technically illegal, authorities say they won't will be scouring Twitter for #ballotselfie posts in order to snag scofflaws.

That is, unless there's evidence that the messages have been coerced or part of a pay-for-vote scheme.

The intent of Ohio's ballot sharing ban, last revised almost 20 years ago, was to prevent voter intimidation, and Tammany Hall-era election fixing, Dan Tierney, a spokesman for Attorney General Mike DeWine said.

Though Republican Presidential candidate Donald Trump recently has alleged this years' contest is rigged, there's no proof that in Ohio or elsewhere voter fraud is common.

The idea of poll booth secrecy is sacred in many states, though, whether a new generation of voters wants it to be or not.

It harkens back to an era of political machine-era election rigging, long before the advent of digital cameras, cell phones or sharing Snaps.

Absent that sort of complaint, "a ballot selfie case might be difficult to prosecute," Tierney said.

Secretary of State Jon Husted's office this week declined to offer guidance on Ohio's the law.

That appears to be a departure from Husted's stance on other election-related issues, such as early voting, which the top election official says should be uniform statewide.

Any enforcement of the law should be discussed with county prosecutors, said spokesman Josh Eck, who disputes that creates a departure. He said a number of responsibilities are left to law enforcement and people on the ground.

A spokesman for the Cuyahoga County Prosecutor's office said, "We will review the facts of any cases that are brought to our attention and proceed with appropriate discretion."

A federal appeals court panel in Boston last month ruled a New Hampshire law banning the sharing of so-called ballot selfies on social media was unconstitutional.

Voters and the American Civil Liberties Union, with support from the social media platform Snapchat (now Snap) challenged the law.

New Hampshire had a ban on capturing images in the voting booth that dated back to the 1970s but in 2014 updated the law to include taking digital versions of marked ballots and sharing them on social media.

Snapchat, in a brief supporting ballot selfie rights, argued that the sharing of digital information, like Snaps and selfies, are the way younger voters participate in the political process and make their voices heard, which is protected by the First Amendment. (Read the brief here.)

It called "flimsy," information attorneys for the state presented that suggested the photos could be used for nefarious purposes, such as to force voters to reveal who they cast ballots for.

Circuit Court Judge Sandra Lynch quoted a 1957 U.S. Supreme Court decision in an obscenity case, writing that the state's overly broad ban was like "burning down the house to roast the pig."

It's not clear what effect the ruling will have in more than 20 other states with similarly styled prohibitions, or other like Ohio, where the intent of law that restrict ballot sharing are less-than-clear.

(Here's a look at how often #ballotselfie is showing up on Twitter.)

#ballotselfie Tweets

Ohio's law is muddled and confusing, said civil rights attorney Subodh Chandra. He's representing the Northeast Ohio Coalition for the Homeless and the Ohio Democratic party in a different voting rights case that challenges new requirements to certify absentee and provisional ballots.

Ohio's law doesn't explicitly ban the sharing of ballot photos. It bans letting anyone else see your ballot, kind of.

Chandra said the language of the ballot sharing law – if read plainly – actually bans voters from letting anyone see their ballot if their intention is "to let it be known how the elector is about to vote."

(There's an exception if someone needs help casting their ballot because of a disability.)

The law also makes it illegal to "induce" a voter into showing their marked ballot.

As written, the law is either unconstitutionally vague or it violates the First Amendment, Chandra said.

Posting a ballot selfie as a form of expression to "encourage friends to vote, as a means of free association is also protected by the First Amendment, Chandra said.

Chandra said he's not sure Ohio's statute, as written, would withstand a challenge, but if enforced it could have "a chilling effect" on free expression.

The Cuyahoga County Board of Elections is taking a low-key approach to the issue, a community outreach worker said.

In the spring, they Tweeted this message:

We love seeing all the voter pride, but know it is illegal in OH to post a picture of your voted ballot! Show your sticker instead! #vote

— Board of Elections (@cuyahogaboe) March 15, 2016

If a voted ballot photo is spotted during this election cycle, the board's policy is to contact the voter, explain the law is there to prevent bribery and ask them to delete the photo.
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
