
Spinoffs
Newspaper January 29, 2017 | Plain Dealer, The (Cleveland, OH)
Section: sports 985 Words
Page: B9
Spinoffs
* 3 Browns head coach Hue Jackson leaves no doubt he expects to be the point man in the quarterback search.

He called finding a quarterback “my baby.”

“We’re going to find him, I promise you that,” Jackson told reporters at the Senior Bowl, where the Browns staff coached the South team.

“I think it’s imperative. That’s my job. That’s what I came to Cleveland for.”

Jackson’s opinion should count heavily. But the Browns need a smart, calculated organizational consensus because taking a QB high (where good QBs always go) might require passing on a great talent at another position of great need.

Someone asked Jackson if there was a leader in the clubhouse in the QB search.

“I’m the leader in the clubhouse,” he said.

Failing to add “Trust me” this time.

* 3 Jackson said he will assume some of Pep Hamil-ton’s duties after Hamilton decided to join Jim Harbaugh at Michigan.

“We’re kind of set up to weather that situation with myself being the primary play-caller on offense and involved with the quarterbacks,” said Jackson.

If you watched the Browns go 1-15 last year and thought one clear fix could be Jackson stretching himself even thinner as a head coach, you’re getting your wish.

* 3 All-Pro left tackle Joe Thomas made it clear he prefers the Browns take a pass rusher at No. 1 over a quarterback.

I guess it’s one thing to miss at No. 22 (Brady Quinn, Brandon Weeden, Johnny Manziel), another to miss at No. 1 overall.

Those three QBs came after the Browns picked a player higher in the first round (Thomas, Trent Richardson, Justin Gilbert.)

Missing on only two of three.

Feel better?

* 3 Thomas’ point isn’t that you should never take a QB No. 1. It’s that you shouldn’t reach there when you have a much better chance of finding an impact player at another position.

In theory that’s sound. (I’d take Myles Garrett or Jonathan Allen in this draft at No. 1).

In practice, if the Browns don’t find a quarterback some season soon, the leader in the clubhouse won’t be Hue Jackson.

* 3 Clemson coach Dabo Swinney’s take on quarterback Deshaun Watson — likening him to Michael Jordan — is obviously ridiculous.

But Watson’s college career wouldn’t be the first to get oversold at the pro level. I remember one college quarterback who set an NCAA-record of 134 TD passes over two 5,000-yard seasons. His completion rate was over 70 percent.

The Browns even invited Graham Harrell to a mini-camp under Eric Mangini.

After he went undrafted.

* 3 One take on LeBron James’ criticism of the Cavs organization is that he thrives on conflict and controversy.

I’ve even seen someone call his latest public airing “brilliant.”

If the Cavs get out of their funk and sign a roster reinforcement or two (which is likely) James might get credit for calling attention to a problem. If they fall in the playoffs, he can say he sounded the alarm as far back as January.

If that’s what’s meant by “brilliant” I guess it qualifies.

But it seems like a low bar.

* 3 My favorite line from LeBron’s public airing: “I’ll be 33 in the winter.” He said that on Jan. 23.

Twenty-four days after turning 32.

* 3 Tyronn Lue says the Cavs “have enough on this team to win a championship.”

If everything goes right and the Spurs lose along the way, and Draymond Green gets suspended for serial groin punching, Lue’s take might even be true.

* 3 The only way to make a trade for Carmelo Anthony look like an easy assimilation for the Cavs would be a deal for Rajon Rondo.

* 3 Via Yahoo’s Ball Don’t Lie blog, two-time “Jeopardy” champ Loren Lee Chen has twice bet sums in Final Jeopardy that seem to jab at the Golden State Warriors.

Once he bet $301. Another time he bet $739.

The Warriors lost a 3-1 lead to the Cavs in the NBA Finals after a best-ever 73-9 regular season.

The champ doesn’t say whether he’s a Cavs fan. Or a Thunder fan still miffed Kevin Durant joined the Warriors as a free agent.

Either way, that’s a true Daily Double in the category of “Snark.”

* 3 Cowboys wide receiver Dez Bryant says Giants receiver Odell Beckham is “extremely misunderstood.”

It’s no surprise if other people want to wait for a second opinion.

* 3 Oklahoma City’s Enes Kanter is expected to miss six to eight weeks. He fractured a bone in his forearm after punching a chair on the Thunder bench during a win over the Mavs.

Russell Westbrook was so distracted by the loss of Kanter and what it might mean to Oklahoma City’s playoff chances, he only scored 45.

* 3 Bernhard Langer issued a statement after Donald Trump — according to witnesses — told a group of Senate and House leaders the German golfer had witnessed potential voter fraud in Florida.

The New York Times explained it this way:

“[Mr. Langer] was standing in line at a polling place near his home in Florida on Election Day, the president explained, when an official informed Mr. Langer he would not be able to vote.

“Ahead of and behind Mr. Langer were voters who did not look as if they should be allowed to vote, Mr. Trump said, according to the staff members — but they were nonetheless permitted to cast provisional ballots.”

Langer’s statement: “The voting situation ...

was told to me by a friend. I then relayed the story in conversation with another friend, who shared it with a person with ties to the White House.

“From there, this was misconstrued. I am not a citizen of the United States, and cannot vote.”

If not for being a quadruple bogey, this “account” of voter fraud could’ve been an ace.

* 3 Since 2010, coaches in first games against Bill Belichick are 3-22.

Atlanta Falcons head coach Dan Quinn is not only looking for flaws in the Patriots leading up to Super Bowl LI but the odds say he could also use some “alternative facts.”
Copyright, 2017, The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
