
Hillary Clinton to return to Cleveland: Ohio Politics Roundup
Newspaper October 19, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Section: Open 852 Words
Hillary Clinton to return to Cleveland: Ohio Politics Roundup
Hillary Clinton is set to return to Cleveland later this week. Donald Trump's son Eric doesn't share his father's concern about election tampering. And Rob Portman's still riding high in the polls after withdrawing his endorsement of Trump. Today's Ohio Politics Roundup is brought to you by Jeremy Pelzer.

Hillary's coming back: Hillary Clinton's coming back to the Cleveland area on Friday, two days after the final presidential debate, cleveland.com's Mary Kilpatrick reports. Clinton's campaign hasn't yet released specifics on the visit, her third so far this month in the Buckeye State.

Donald Trump headed to Central Ohio: Trump will be paying a visit on Thursday to a Central Ohio county that could prove to crucial to the election in November, reports cleveland.com's Andrew J. Tobias. The GOP nominee is scheduled to hold a 12:30 p.m rally at the Delaware County Fairgrounds.

Big rig driven by the media? Trump's son Eric, campaigning for his father Tuesday in Toledo, said he accepts Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted's assurances that the election will be fair, reports the Toledo Blade's Tom Troy. The younger Trump said his concerns about a "rigged" election have more to do with media bias than direct tampering. That's a different stance from his father and running mate Mike Pence, who have talked about outright "voter fraud" despite offering no evidence of election tampering.

The Internet lied to us? Husted said he contacted the United States Postal Service after a California-based Twitter prankster claimed he worked at a Columbus post office and ripped up absentee ballots marked for Trump, according to cleveland.com's Mary Kilpatrick. The postal service concluded the allegation was a hoax.

Don't worry, but call just in case: "Nonpartisan voting rights groups in Ohio are joining the state's Republican elections chief in pushing back against suggestions by the Trump campaign that the state's election could be compromised," according to the Associated Press. Officials with the League of Women Voters, Ohio Voice, America Votes, and other groups said Ohio's elections system is secure and encouraged people to call a voter hotline – 866-OUR-VOTE – co-sponsored by a national lawyers' group that helps assure election integrity.

Speaking of election crimes: The Plain Dealer's Rachel Dissell offers a friendly reminder that it's technically a felony in Ohio to post a picture of your filled-out ballot on social media. The ban, last revised about 20 years ago, is designed to prevent voter intimidation and election fixing. But don't get too freaked out: "Authorities say they won't be scouring Twitter for #ballotselfie posts," and officials are unlikely to prosecute ballot-sharing cases.

Dumping Trump hasn't hurt Portman: Two new U.S. Senate polls show U.S. Sen. Rob Portman's decision to withdraw his endorsement of Trump has done little to affect his commanding lead in the race. As I report, new surveys released by Quinnipiac University and CNN/ORC show Portman up 13 points and 16 points, respectively, over Ted Strickland.

The surveys undercut Democratic hopes that Portman would be hurt both by Trump's latest scandals regarding his treatment of women and from Trump supporters angry at the senator for withdrawing his endorsement. Portman actually polled higher among likely GOP voters in the new Quinnipiac survey (95 percent) than he did in the last survey (94 percent). Strickland did pick up some ground among Democrats -- he polled 88 percent among them, up from 80 percent in the last Quinnipiac survey.

Groups say drop top cop: "Several agencies representing minorities, immigrants and activists have asked Cleveland Mayor Frank Jackson to remove Police Union President Steve Loomis from the Community Police Commission -- a group assembled to help guide police reform under a federal consent decree," writes cleveland.com's Leila Atassi. The Cleveland branch of the NAACP, the Greater Cleveland Immigrant Support Network, Cleveland Peace Action and others contend that reform efforts are hindered by Loomis, who has said the federally mandated reforms are "politically motivated" and have "emboldened the criminal element."

Tax help for Hillary? Voters in five of Ohio's six largest cities – Columbus, Cleveland, Cincinnati, Toledo, and Dayton – are deciding big tax issues this year. As cleveland.com's Rich Exner explains, that could help Clinton by boosting turnout in some strong Democratic areas in the state.

Down but not out: Richard Cordray's power as head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was cut last week, when a federal appeals court panel ruled that the president should have the power to remove him, if desired. But as cleveland.com's Steve Koff writes, Cordray's wings have not been clipped for good: President Obama has no beef with him, and Clinton will likely keep him on if she wins the White House. If Donald Trump wins, Cordray's likely to go, but that would open the door to a possible 2018 Ohio gubernatorial run.

Setup: The Ohio House Republican Caucus surprised Cincinnati-area politicos last week by airing a TV ad attacking little-known legislative candidate Jessica Miranda for "not paying her own taxes," the Cincinnati Enquirer's Carl Weiser reports.

Punchline: Miranda's GOP opponent, state Rep. Jonathan Dever, also had unpaid income taxes at one time.

Get Battleground Briefing, our FREE politics newsletter, delivered to your inbox: Sign up here. Tips or links? Send here. Follow along on Twitter: @JPelzer
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
