
Pence draws cheers at Ohio rally for criticism of Clinton
Newspaper October 18, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The (Cleveland, OH)
Author: Jeremy Pelzer jpelzer@cleveland .com Section: News 473 Words
Page: A5
Pence draws cheers at Ohio rally for criticism of Clinton
Columbus — For 25 years, Republican vice presidential nominee Mike Pence swore off negative campaigning. But with running mate Donald Trump polling even with Democratic rival Hillary Clinton in Ohio even as he reels from reports of inappropriate behavior toward women, Pence took the gloves off Monday.

During a rally at the Greater Columbus Convention Center, the Indiana governor went on the attack early and often against Clinton. Pence also raised the specter of voter fraud, despite offering no evidence the election will be rigged.

Here’s more on what Pence talked about:

Pence went after Clinton:

Pence, speaking before a crowd of supporters, went after Clinton’s record as U.S. secretary of state, including the deaths of four Americans in Benghazi, Libya, in 2012. Pence said that Clinton shouldn’t be permitted to serve as president because she told a Senate committee investigating the reasons for the Benghazi attack, “ ‘At this point, what difference does it make?’ ”

“Let me say, as the proud father of a United States Marine, anybody who said that, anybody who did that, should be disqualified from ever serving as commander in chief of the armed forces of the United States of America,” he said to cheers.

Pence also brought up other reports, including allegations that a State Department official offered the FBI a quid pro quo during an investigation into Clinton’s use of a private email server, and that a senior State Department official gave special attention to friends of former President Bill Clinton when discussing aid to Haiti after a devastating 2010 earthquake.

A Clinton campaign spokeswoman didn’t immediately respond Monday to requests for comment on the reports and Pence’s comment.

Rigged election allegations: Pence echoed statements by Trump alleging large-scale voter fraud, though — like Trump — he offered no evidence to back up such accusations.

Pence said there’s been “a lot of talk about voter fraud,” and he urged onlookers to volunteer to be poll watchers “in a respectful way” to “ensure the integrity of the vote.”

However, Pence added he’s “not worried” about voter fraud “because I know the American people are not going to let it happen.”

There is no evidence of widespread electoral fraud in the United States.

Ohio elected officials and analysts — including Republican Secretary of State Jon Husted, who plans to vote for Trump — say Ohio’s bipartisan election process makes it nearly impossible to steal an election in the state. During the 2012 election, there were only 270 reported cases of voting irregularities in Ohio, most of which didn’t result in criminal charges.

A Clinton campaign spokeswoman, asked for comment, referred to Husted’s comment that it’s “irresponsible” for a candidate to question the integrity of elections without evidence.
Copyright, 2016, The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
