
Mike Pence blasts Hillary Clinton, warns of 'voter fraud' during Columbus rally
Newspaper October 17, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Section: Open 640 Words
Mike Pence blasts Hillary Clinton, warns of 'voter fraud' during Columbus rally
COLUMBUS, Ohio—For 25 years, Republican vice-presidential nominee Mike Pence swore off negative campaigning. But with running mate Donald Trump polling even with Democratic rival Hillary Clinton in Ohio even as he reels from reports of inappropriate behavior toward women, Pence took the gloves off Monday.

During a rally at the Greater Columbus Convention Center, the Indiana governor went on the attack early and often against Clinton. Pence also raised the specter of voter fraud, despite offering no evidence the election will be rigged.

Here's more on what Pence talked about:

Pence went after Clinton

Pence, speaking before a crowd of supporters, went after Clinton's record as U.S. secretary of state, including the deaths of four Americans in Benghazi, Libya in 2012. Pence said that Clinton shouldn't be permitted to serve as president because she told a Senate committee investigating the reasons for the Benghazi attack, "at this point, what difference does it make?"

"Let me say, as the proud father of a United States Marine, anybody who said that, anybody who did that, should be disqualified from ever serving as commander in chief of the armed forces of the United States of America," he said to cheers.

Pence also brought up other reports, including allegations that a state department official offered the FBI a "quid pro quo" during an investigation into Clinton's use of a private email server, and that a senior State Department official gave special attention to friends of Bill Clinton, Hillary's husband and an ex-president, when discussing aid to Haiti after a devastating 2010 earthquake.

Both the U.S. State Department and the FBI, in statements, denied there was a "quid pro quo" at work.

"It is well known that there was strong disagreement among various government agencies about the decisions to retroactively classify certain material in emails sent to Secretary Clinton," said Clinton campaign press secretary Brian Fallon in a statement. "Agencies that took issue with this over classification did so based on their own beliefs, and we were not part of these disagreements that played out inside the government."

Pence suggested the election may be rigged

Pence echoed statements by Trump alleging large-scale voter fraud, though – like Trump – he offered no evidence to back up such accusations.

Pence said there's been "a lot of talk about voter fraud," and he urged onlookers to volunteer to be poll watchers "in a respectful way" to "ensure the integrity of the vote."

However, Pence added he's "not worried" about voter fraud "because I know the American people are not going to let it happen."

There is no evidence of widespread electoral fraud in the United States.

Ohio elected officials and analysts -- including Republican Secretary of State Jon Husted, who plans to vote for Trump -- say Ohio's bipartisan election process makes it nearly impossible to steal an election in the state. During the 2012 election, there were only 270 reported cases of voting irregularities in Ohio, most of which didn't result in criminal charges.

A Clinton campaign spokeswoman, asked for comment, referred to Husted's comment that it's "irresponsible" for a candidate to question the integrity of elections without evidence.

Pence outlined his campaign's platform

Pence didn't go negative for the entirety of his 30-minute speech. He touted Trump's tax plan and said a Trump administration would renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement.

"Under President Donald Trump, trade is going to mean American jobs first," Pence said.

Pence also drew parallels between himself and Trump, noting their grandfathers each immigrated to America, and their fathers ran successful businesses.

And he struck a note of modesty, noting that he doesn't draw the large crowds that Trump has.

"I know I'm not the main event," Pence said. "I'm like a B-list Republican celebrity."
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
