Federal appeals court in Ohio overturns restraining order against Trump campaign in voter-intimidation case
Newspaper November 6, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Author: Eric Heisig, cleveland.com Section: Court-Justice 654 Words
Federal appeals court in Ohio overturns restraining order against Trump campaign in voter-intimidation case
CINCINNATI, Ohio — A three-judge panel on a federal appeals court has overturned a Cleveland federal judge's last-minute restraining order against Donald Trump's campaign and eliminated the restriction of certain activities outside of Ohio polling places that Democrats feared would be used to intimidate voters.

The 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Sunday morning stayed the order of U.S. District Judge James Gwin. They wrote that the Ohio Democratic Party, which requested the order, "did not demonstrate before the district court a likelihood of success on the merits, and that all of the requisite factors weigh in favor of granting the stay."

The two-page order did not elaborate further. The court said Sunday afternoon that it would not hold a hearing with all its judges to determine whether a stay was warranted.

Ohio Democrats filed their lawsuit on Oct. 30 against state Republicans, Trump's campaign and longtime Trump adviser Roger Stone. State Democrats said they feared an aggressive presence from Trump supporters on Election Day could discourage voters from the black community and other groups.

Gwin agreed with Democrats after a Friday hearing. He wrote that intervention was necessary because "there is a legitimate possibility that particular laws may be imminently violated." The order was to expire after Election Day.

The judge filed the order against Trump's campaign and Stone, though he wrote that it applied to both Democrats and Republicans. He did not issue it against the Ohio Republican Party, though, saying there wasn't enough evidence that the party was engaging in voter intimidation.

Trump's campaign immediately appealed, arguing that Gwin's order restricted its First Amendment rights and was not based on any actual examples of voter intimidation in Ohio.

The order restricted certain activities such as loitering at or near polling places without any intention of voting and a handing out literature that says voter fraud is a crime.

Generally, the order said people must follow established Ohio laws on electioneering outside of polling places.

Read more: What you need to know about an Ohio federal judge's order on voter harassment

The 6th Circuit on Saturday only asked the Democrats to respond to a request for a hearing. It did not ask the party to explain why Gwin's order should not be overturned.

Ohio Democratic Party spokeswoman Kirstin Alvanitakis said in a statement that "we are stunned that a court would rule without even allowing one of the parties to file a memo explaining their case, but that is exactly what the Sixth Circuit has done in this decision. We are exploring our options to reverse this unfortunate ruling."

Trump's Ohio spokesmen did not return an email.

In the lawsuit, Democrats used statements Trump and his surrogates have made at campaign stops in which they said voter fraud was rampant. The candidate has encouraged poll watching, and the Democrats said that is evidence of a conspiracy to suppress minority voter turnout in Democratic-leaning cities such as Cleveland.

They also say Stone and his groups' plans to conduct "exit polling" in cities that historically vote Democrat is problematic.

Democrats filed similar lawsuits in other states. Federal judges in Nevada and Arizona, two other swing states, refused to grant restraining orders. A federal judge in Pennsylvania will hold a hearing on that state's lawsuit on Monday.

Stone said in an email that he is confident he will prevail in the lawsuits filed in other states.

Gwin was appointed to the bench by President Bill Clinton in 1997. The three judges that ruled for Trump's campaign were appointed by Republican presidents.

Elections officials from both parties, as well as independent experts, say that election fraud is very rare, and to the extent it does happen, it occurs on a scale much too small to influence national elections.

Updated with background and a statements from the Ohio Democratic Party and Stone.

Click here to read the order on a mobile device.
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
