Donald Trump's campaign asks appeals court to put Ohio judge's voter-intimidation order on hold
Newspaper November 5, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Author: Eric Heisig, cleveland.com Section: Court-Justice 625 Words
Donald Trump's campaign asks appeals court to put Ohio judge's voter-intimidation order on hold
CINCINNATI, Ohio — Donald Trump's campaign has asked an appeals court to immediately suspend a Cleveland federal judge's restraining order in a voter-intimidation case, saying it would be harmed as Nov. 8 Election Day nears.

The Republican presidential candidate's campaign, in two briefs filed Saturday, says U.S. District Judge James Gwin's order is not based on any actual voter intimidation or likely intimidating actions, but rather the mere possibility.

It says the Ohio Democratic Party, which filed the lawsuit and pushed for the order, did not provide any examples in its lawsuit or during a hearing on Friday.

The campaign asks the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati to immediately halt Gwin's order and to have the full court hold an immediate hearing.

UPDATE: Federal appeals court in Ohio overturns restraining order against Trump campaign in voter-intimidation case

"... The order tramples upon core First Amendment freedoms. It imposes vague prohibitions against poorly defined categories of core political activity — talking to voters, giving information to voters, etc.—that guarantee hundreds (if not thousands) of Ohioans will be chilled from participating in our democratic process," Trump campaign attorney Chad Readler wrote in a brief.

(You can read the Trump campaign's briefs and the Democrats' response at the bottom of this story.)

The lawsuit was filed Oct. 30 against state Republicans, Trump's campaign and longtime Trump adviser Roger Stone. State Democrats said that they fear an aggressive presence from Trump supporters could discourage voters from the black community and other groups. The Ohio Democratic Party used statements Trump and his surrogates have made at campaign stops as evidence of a conspiracy to suppress minority voting turnout.

Democrats filed similar lawsuits in other states. The Trump campaign's brief points out that federal judges in Nevada and Arizona refused to grant restraining orders.

Gwin issued his order following a hearing on Friday. The order restricts certain activities such as loitering at or near polling places without any intention of voting and a handing out literature that says voter fraud is a crime.

Generally, the order says those to whom it applies must follow established Ohio laws on electioneering outside of polling places.

Gwin wrote in his order that his intervention was necessary because "there is a legitimate possibility that particular laws may be imminently violated."

Read more: What you need to know about an Ohio federal judge's order on voter harassment

He wrote that his order applies to "Trump, Stone, and [Stone's organization] Stop the Steal — as well as their officers, agents, servants, and employees — and other individuals or groups, including groups associated with the Clinton for Presidency campaign."

The broad swath this covers has caused some confusion as to exactly who is restricted from carrying out the actions he has forbidden. Readler notes this in his briefs.

"If the court's Order appears puzzling to this Court, think of how it must appear to everyday Ohioans, none of whom were parties to the case, but all of whom are covered by the Order," the brief says.

The Ohio Democratic Party filed a response late Saturday that says the 6th Circuit should not have all its judges hold a hearing on Gwin's order. The Democrats say Trump's campaign will not be harmed by the order.

"The integrity of the electoral process — and Americans' trust in the judiciary's ability to safeguard their most precious rights — is at stake," the Democrats' response says. "The District Court's order safeguards the constitutional imperative to protect the franchise, which does and should take priority over the Campaign's untenable invocation of the First Amendment as a justification for intimidating Ohio voters."

Updated with the Democrats' response.
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
