Political newswatch - ELECTION Kushner, Spicer double-registered
Newspaper January 27, 2017 | Plain Dealer, The (Cleveland, OH)
Section: News 422 Words
Page: A9
Political newswatch - ELECTION Kushner, Spicer double-registered
Jared Kushner, President Donald Trump’s son-in-law and one of his closest White House advisers, is registered to vote in both New Jersey and New York, while White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer is on the rolls both in Virginia and his home state of Rhode Island, according to elections officials and voting registration records. Besides Kushner and Spicer, The Washington Post has now identified five Trump family members or top administration appointees who were registered in two states during the fall election. The others are chief White House strategist Stephen Bannon; Tiffany Trump, the president’s youngest daughter; and Treasury Secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin, as first reported by CNN.

ELECTION

Congressman dismisses fraud claim

Breaking with President Donald Trump, the House Oversight Committee chairman said he sees no evidence of voter fraud in the election, and his committee won’t investigate it. Republican Congressman Jason Chaffetz of Utah said Trump is free to order the Justice Department to investigate, but “the oversight committee is not planning to do anything with it.” Trump has claimed, without evidence, that at least 3 million people voted illegally in the election, denying him a popular vote majority.

EMPLOYMENT

Border Patrol chief ousted

The man charged with protecting America’s borders was ousted Thursday, one day after President Donald Trump announced ambitious plans to build a massive wall at the Mexican border. Border Patrol Chief Mark Morgan said he was asked to leave and decided to resign, according to a U.S. official with knowledge of the video conference in which Morgan informed senior agents of the change.

EMPLOYMENT

Career diplomats removed

A number of career Foreign Service officers were informed this week that they will not be asked to stay on in senior or sensitive posts that are under direct White House control, creating an unusual leadership vacuum among the top ranks of the State Department. Although the diplomats were not technically fired, the Trump administration opted to remove top officials in charge of the State Department’s 13 divisions responsible for policy and other matters. Officials at the level of assistant secretary and above were affected, the department said.

EPA

Budget, staff cuts called likely at agency

The former head of President Donald Trump’s transition team at the Environmental Protection Agency said Thursday he expects the new administration to seek significant budget and staff cuts. Myron Ebell told The Associated Press that Trump is likely to seek significant reductions to the agency’s work force — currently about 15,000 employees nationwide. Ebell, who left the transition team last week, declined to discuss specific numbers.
Copyright, 2017, The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
