
Donald Trump's 'rigged' talk concerns Cuyahoga County elections officials
Newspaper October 19, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Section: Open 1334 Words
Donald Trump's 'rigged' talk concerns Cuyahoga County elections officials
CLEVELAND, Ohio — Cuyahoga County elections officials say they are upping their Election Day security measures in response to conspiratorial rhetoric from Republican nominee Donald Trump.

County Elections Director Pat McDonald, a Republican, said that by telling his supporters that the election will be "rigged" or stolen somehow, while also recruiting them to go watch the polls, Trump could end up adding extra instability to the already politicized environment of Election Day.

So, the elections board is working with local law enforcement to make sure police can be quickly dispatched in the event that there are issues at polling places, he said.

"My board got concerned and wanted to put in measures to ensure the safety and well-being of all the poll workers, as well as the voters on Election Day," McDonald said.

Trump previously tried out the "rigged" line in August, but retired it as he improved in the polls. He has renewed his claim — without offering evidence — as national polls have shown him falling behind Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.

This has led Republican Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted and others to make the media rounds this week to try to assure the public on the integrity of the electoral system.

http://www.cleveland.com/open/index.ssf/2016/08/ohio_secretary_of_state_jon_hu_8.html

Voter-rights groups on Tuesday held a conference call with reporters to emphasize the integrity of the Ohio voting system.

"We want to reassure people that Ohio's elections are fair, they are secure and you can have confidence in the results," said Karen Davis, president of the Ohio League of Women Voters, a good-government group.

Here are some answers to questions about poll observers and what's being done to ensure the security of the election.

Aren't candidates allowed to recruit poll observers?

Yes — campaigns and political parties every election year work together to recruit volunteers to serve as poll observers on Election Day.

But it's the way Trump is characterizing his call for observers — the volunteer signup on his website reads "help me stop Crooked Hillary from rigging this election" — that is different.

"We've never had this rhetoric coming out of the candidates, where [Trump] is basically telling his supporters to be watchdogs of the polling locations," McDonald said.

Trump's rhetoric appears to be resonating with voters more broadly. An Oct. 16 poll of nearly 2,000 registered voters by Politico/Morning Consult found that 41 percent said the election could be stolen from Trump due to widespread voter fraud.

In turn, supporters in turn have told media outlets they plan to head to polling places to look for problems.

"I'll look for . . . well, it's called racial profiling. Mexicans. Syrians. People who can't speak American," Steve Webb, a 61-year-old Southwest Ohio man, told the Boston Globe last week during a Trump rally in Cincinnati. "I'm going to go right up behind them. I'll do everything legally. I want to see if they are accountable. I'm not going to do anything illegal. I'm going to make them a little bit nervous."

Ohio Democratic Party Chairman David Pepper said this rhetoric could have a chilling effect on voters.

"There's a process to have elections observers," Pepper said. "It's not what Trump is talking about, and it's not about intimidating people or having people play cowboy."

McDonald said two Trump supporters came by the county elections board recently identifying themselves as campaign poll observers. He said he told them to leave and come back with documentation.

"They were asking me questions about the polling locations, and which ones they wanted to go to. I told them it doesn't work that way," McDonald said.

Who can observe elections?

Electioneering is banned within 100 feet of any polling location under Ohio law.

However, political parties, groups of five or more candidates and recognized committees in support of a ballot issue, are allowed to send a limited number of official observers into the polling places as independent monitors to the process.

County elections officials certify the observers meet the legal criteria under state law. For example, felons and people who can't read or write in English are excluded.

What can the observers do?

Well, observe.

They are allowed to make small talk with elections officials during slow periods, but otherwise generally should remain quiet. They are not allowed to challenge or impede voters, take photos, or record or transcribe conversations inside the polling place. They are allowed to send text messages and emails, as long as they are not perceived to be intimidating voters, according to guidance from the Ohio Secretary of State's Office. They are not allowed to wear uniforms or campaign insignias. They are not allowed to attempt to enforce elections law themselves or advocate on behalf of voters.

How many official observers are there expected to be on Election Day?

Based on past years, McDonald said he expects around 250-300 Republicans and 350-400 Democrats to be in Cuyahoga County as poll observers.

But the Oct. 28 deadline for parties to submit names to the counties has not yet passed, McDonald said.

What about unofficial observers?

Anyone can go to a polling place outside the 100-foot perimeter.

Outside voting advocacy groups said Tuesday they plan to send representatives to observe in this capacity.

Among those groups is the Ohio League of Women Voters, Davis said.

"As we are training election protection field volunteers, we are making sure they are aware of the rules as well so if they encounter any problems or encounter anyone interfering with voters, they'll let us know right away," Davis said.

The advocates provided phone numbers — 866-OUR-VOTE for English, 888-VE-Y-VOTA for Spanish and 888-API-VOTE for Asian languages — that voters can call to report problems on Election Day.

One way to get around these issues entirely, though, is to cast an absentee vote, advocates said.

What do elections officials do to ensure vote integrity?

There are measures in place — ranging from doors to rooms containing election equipment that can only be opened by a Republican and a Democrat at the same time, to vote tabulations being recorded in triplicate, including a paper trail — to ensure that voting machines, which are not connected to the Internet, are not tampered with.

Husted has informed local elections officials how to protect against one possible vulnerability — hackers have attempted to compromise databases containing the names and addresses of registered voters in other states. But there's no evidence that the efforts have been successful.

To the extent that voter fraud exists in Ohio, Husted's office audited the 2012 election. It found fewer than 100 cases of suspected fraud out of 5.6 million votes that were cast. Democratic President Barack Obama won Ohio by more than 167,000 votes.

McDonald, the Cuyahoga County elections director, said elections officials require voters on Election Day to provide a form of valid ID, plus provide a signature that is compared to the signature in the voter's registration file. Early voters must provide their addresses and some form of personal information — like the last four digits of their Social Security number — to get an absentee ballot. The completed ballots also must contain a signature, which is compared to the signature on file.

Debbie Reiter, director of the Geauga County Board of Elections, said elections workers are being trained to make sure the vote is fair.

"We're all thinking about it more just because of what's being said," Reiter said. "But we put a lot of effort into making sure the election is honest and fair, and we have a lot of integrity in the job we do. We work very hard in this office and have for a number of years."

"What the public needs to know," Lorain County Board of Elections Director Paul Adams said, "is that this is a process that [Republicans and Democrats] work together on to put together, and we've always taken these security concerns very seriously well before any of this recent talk in the press has come out."
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
