
Mike Pence asks Christians to forgive Donald Trump: Politics Extra
Newspaper October 12, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Section: Open 1037 Words
Mike Pence asks Christians to forgive Donald Trump: Politics Extra
Mike Pence calls on Christians for forgive his running mate. Hillary Clinton's campaign blames the latest email hack on Russia, while Donald Trump claims he does not know Vladimir Putin. Read more in today's Politics Extra.

Pence's plea: Donald Trump's running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, told evangelical Christians Wednesday that they should forgive the GOP presidential nominee, reports USA Today. The plea on behalf of his running mate came days after the Friday release of a 2005 recording in which Trump is heard discussing women and his attempts to grope them.

"As Christians we are called to forgive, even as we've been forgiven," Pence said at Liberty University, as he praised Trump's handling of the matter at the second presidential debate. "Last Sunday night, my running mate showed humility," Pence said at the evangelical college. "He showed what was in his heart to the American people."

And some Republican senators are changing their tune: Two GOP senators who spoke out against their party's presidential nominee after the offensive tape surfaced this weekend are changing course, reports the Wall Street Journal. Facing a backlash from Trump supporters, Sens. Deb Fischer of Nebraska and John Thune of South Dakota said they would vote for Trump in November. Thune was the highest-ranking member of Senate Republican leadership to call over the weekend for Trump to leave the ticket and be replaced by Pence.

But Fischer and Thune hardly represent a trend in the GOP establishment; check out 162 Republicans who oppose Trump.

Clinton confidence in Colorado: Priorities USA Action, a major super PAC supporting Hillary Clinton, has canceled its final two weeks of TV ad reservations in Colorado, reports Politico. The move came Tuesday evening, just before Clinton landed in the state to campaign for the first time in weeks and represents Democratic confidence that the party's nominee will win the battleground state.

Podesta suggests Trump knew about hack: Clinton's campaign chairman John Podesta suggested Tuesday evening that Trump's campaign had advance knowledge of the leak of internal emails that he said were obtained by Russian hackers, reports Time. "I've been involved in politics for nearly five decades. And this definitely is the first campaign that I've been involved with in which I've had to tangle with Russian intelligence agencies," Podesta said.

He pointed to Trump's ally, provocateur and political operative Roger Stone, who has confirmed he was in contact with WikiLeaks founder and Clinton critic Julian Assange. "I think it is a reasonable assumption to, or at least a reasonable conclusion, that Mr. Stone had advance warning, and the Trump campaign had advance warning about what Assange was going to do." Podesta did not confirm the authenticity of the emails.

Trump on Putin: Trump repeatedly referenced the latest WikiLeaks hack of Podesta's emails during a Wednesday Florida rally, reports Politico. "You ever notice anything that goes wrong, they blame Russia? 'Russia did it,'" Trump told the Ocala crowd, referencing the Clinton camp's suggestion that the document dumps are a result of Russia trying to boost Trump into the White House. "But they always blame Russia. And then they say, 'Donald Trump is friends with [Vladimir] Putin,'" he continued. "I don't know Putin, folks. I promise I don't know Putin. What the hell do I have to do with Putin? These people are professional con people."

Putin on Trump: "They started this hysteria, saying that this [hacking] is in Russia's interests. But this has nothing to do with Russia's interests," President Putin told a business forum Wednesday in Moscow, according to the CBC. "Everyone is talking about 'who did it' [the hacking]," he said. "But is it that important? The most important thing is what is inside this information."

Utah paper endorses Clinton: The largest newspaper in Utah endorsed Clinton Wednesday, marking the latest sign of trouble for Trump in the traditionally red state, according to The Hill. "It has been amusing, to a degree, to watch the circus that was the Republican primary process struggle and fuss and finally produce such a disappointment to be its presidential nominee," wrote the newspaper's editorial board of Trump, in its third straight presidential endorsement of a Democrat. A recent Y2 Analytics poll shows Trump and Clinton tied in Utah at 26 percent, with independent conservative Evan McMullin at 22 percent and Libertarian Gary Johnson at 14 percent.

'It's rigged': From the Republican primaries, to the Democratic primaries, to the general election and the mainstream media, Trump has been known to call certain aspects of American politics "rigged." Here's a list of things Trump has said are "rigged" and "not rigged," according to ABC News.

But Republicans don't want to hear it: Especially when it comes to Trump's assertion that the results of the November election are "rigged," Democrats are not the only ones frustrated, reports Politico. "Somebody claiming in the election, 'I was defrauded,' that isn't going to cut it," said former Sen. Kit Bond, a Missouri Republican who previously endorsed Jeb Bush and then Marco Rubio. "They're going to have to say how, where, why, when."

"I don't think leading candidates for the presidency should undercut the process unless you have a really good reason," said South Carolina Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham.

You say you want a revolution? Pence dissuaded a supporter Tuesday from starting a revolution in the wake of a Clinton victory, reports CNN. During a passionate exchange during a town hall in Iowa, a woman, who identified herself as Rhonda, expressed concern about voter fraud in the upcoming elections and said she was scared of the possible outcomes. "Our lives depend on this election. Our kids' futures depend on this election and I will tell you just for me, I don't want this to happen but I will tell you for me personally if Hillary Clinton gets in, I myself, I'm ready for a revolution because we can't have her in."

"Don't say that," Pence said, shaking his head, adding, "There's a revolution coming on November 8. I promise you."

When is Election Day? Trump misspoke at a rally Tuesday and urged his supporters to vote 20 days after Election Day, reports Business Insider. "Go and register," he told the crowd in Panama City Beach, Florida. "Make sure you get out and vote November 28."
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
