U.S. Supreme Court will not reinstate restraining order in Ohio voter-intimidation case
Newspaper November 7, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Author: Eric Heisig, cleveland.com Section: Court-Justice 390 Words
U.S. Supreme Court will not reinstate restraining order in Ohio voter-intimidation case
CLEVELAND, Ohio — The U.S. Supreme Court said Monday afternoon that it would not intervene in an appellate court's decision to overturn an Ohio federal judge's restraining order against Donald Trump's campaign in a voter-intimidation case.

The decision of the justices means that a restraining order issued Friday by U.S. District Judge James Gwin will not be in place on Nov. 8 Election Day.

State and federal laws make voter intimidation a crime. The Supreme Court's short order included a statement from Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg that said she voted to not intervene because Ohio's law already outlaws voter intimidation.

The Ohio Democratic Party filed a lawsuit last week against Trump's campaign, the Ohio Republican Party and longtime Trump adviser Roger Stone. The 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals' ruling came Sunday.

The Democrats asked the Supreme Court late Sunday to overturn the appellate court's decision to stay Gwin's ruling.

The Democrats fear that Trump and his supporters would be aggressive at polling places in Democratic leaning cities such as Cleveland and would try to dissuade voters from the black community and other groups from voting.

Trump's campaign argued that Gwin's order restricted its First Amendment rights and was not based on any examples of actual voter intimidation in Ohio.

Gwin wrote Friday that intervention was necessary because "there is a legitimate possibility that particular laws may be imminently violated." The order was to expire after Election Day.

The order restricted certain activities such as loitering at or near polling places without any intention of voting and a handing out literature that says voter fraud is a crime.

Generally, the order said people must follow established Ohio laws on electioneering outside of polling places.

Read more: What you need to know about an Ohio federal judge's order on voter harassment

The Ohio Democratic Party forwarded a reporter's request for comment to Hillary Clinton's campaign. A Clinton spokesman did not directly react to the Supreme Court's ruling, but said in a statement that "every voice needs to be heard in this election and we have taken steps to ensure that every American will have easy access to the ballot box."

Click here to read the Supreme Court's order on a mobile device.
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
