
Jon Husted pushes back on Donald Trump and the 'rigged' election theory: Ohio Politics Roundup
Newspaper October 18, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Section: Open 1412 Words
Jon Husted pushes back on Donald Trump and the 'rigged' election theory: Ohio Politics Roundup
Donald Trump keeps saying the election is rigged. Jon Husted keeps saying that's not true. And Ohio's U.S. Senate candidates meet again. Read more in Ohio Politics Roundup.

The rig is up: Donald Trump insists the presidential election is being stolen from him. To hear the Republican nominee tell it and tweet it, it's a vast conspiracy involving Hillary Clinton and the Democrats, the media, and the many people responsible for tabulating results.

"The election is absolutely being rigged by the dishonest and distorted media pushing Crooked Hillary – but also at many polling places – SAD," Trump said on Twitter over the weekend.

Ohio's Jon Husted has emerged as one of the loudest critics of this rhetoric.

"It's irresponsible," the Republican secretary of state – and chief elections administrator – said of Trump's accusation in one of at least two appearances Monday on CNN.

"I can reassure Donald Trump," Husted continued. "I am in charge of elections in Ohio, and they are not going to be rigged. I'll make sure of it. ... Our institutions like our election system is one of the bedrocks of American democracy. We should not question it or the legitimacy of it. It works very well. In places like Ohio, we make it easy to vote and hard to cheat."

That last part – easy to vote, hard to cheat – is Husted's signature line. He has been using it for years in interviews with Ohio reporters and, more recently, in public service announcements that double as a way to boost Husted's profile for his likely run for governor in 2018.

Déjà vu: "What I have said is that Hillary Clinton is wrong when she talks about voters being disenfranchised in America, and Donald Trump is wrong when he talks about the election being rigged," Husted told cleveland.com's Andrew J. Tobias all the way back in August, when Trump began road-testing the "rigged" election message. "It's irresponsible of the candidates to say these things. They should be a more constructive voice in this democracy, and make people feel confident that when they go out to cast their votes, that they can trust the process."

In spite of all of this ... Husted reaffirmed Monday that he will vote for Trump. He even offered some words of empathy to angry Trump supporters who might believe the election is rigged. "I understand the frustration that they have with our institutions, because our institutions have let them down over the course of the last 30 years," Husted told CNN's Carol Costello.

Turn out for what? Husted's office announced late Monday that roughly 1.2 million requests for absentee ballots had been received as of Friday. That's down from 1.4 million that had been requested at this point four years ago. So far, more than 74,000 early votes have been cast.

Polls, polls everywhere: The race between Clinton and Trump in Ohio is tied at 45 percent, according to results of a new Quinnipiac University survey. Another poll released Monday, from CNN/ORC, has Trump ahead, 48 percent to 44 percent. Tobias takes a deeper look.

The only poll that matters: Election Day is 21 days from today. Three more weeks to go.

Round 2: Sen. Rob Portman and Democratic challenger Ted Strickland met Monday evening in Columbus for their second of three debates, writes cleveland.com's Jeremy Pelzer. Issues took a backseat as the candidates traded attacks, he reports.

Recent polls – including the new CNN/ORC survey that has Portman up 16 points – show the Republican incumbent with a healthy double-digit lead over Strickland, the former governor. Their final face-off is set for 7 p.m. Thursday at the Idea Center in Cleveland.

This week in Senate race outreach: Team Portman is targeting a new radio ad – narrated completely in Ukrainian – at Cleveland's Ukrainian community. (Listen to it here.)

Meanwhile, Strickland's allies at the Ohio Democratic Party are in the midst of a canvass aimed at "45,000 households ... from Chillicothe to Portsmouth, Athens to Marietta, St. Clairsville to Steubenville and all along the [Ohio River]," the Portsmouth Daily Times reports. Strickland once represented these eastern and southern Ohio areas in Congress. The region has trended Republican in recent years, but Strickland hopes to keep things close with Portman there.

Hillary to the rescue? The Clinton team will split more than $6 million among seven battleground states, including Ohio, to pay for mail and digital advertisements in down-ballot races, campaign manager Robby Mook said Monday on a media conference call.

It's unclear how big of a cut the Buckeye State will receive, cleveland.com's Mary Kilpatrick reports. But it's Strickland who stands to gain from the extra cash on the way.

Running mates in state: Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, the Republican nominee for vice president, campaigned Monday in Mason (near Cincinnati) and Columbus. "It's not like this is a far fight," Pence said at the first stop, per the Cincinnati Enquirer's Keith BieryGolick.

At the latter stop, "Pence echoed statements by Trump alleging large-scale voter fraud, though – like Trump – he offered no evidence to back up such accusations," cleveland.com's Pelzer reports. "Pence said there's been 'a lot of talk about voter fraud,' and he urged onlookers to volunteer to be poll watchers 'in a respectful way' to "ensure the integrity of the vote.'"

Pence's Democratic counterpart, U.S. Sen. Tim Kaine of Virginia, will campaign Wednesday in the Columbus area and in Springfield – part of closely watched battleground Clark County.

Seamless transition alert! The Enquirer's Jeremy Fugleberg, writing for USA Today, has this dispatch from Clark County: "Its purple-county status isn't the only reason Clark County matters this year, either. For Trump to win the election, he must steal away blue-collar Democrats from Hillary Clinton – people who, like Clark County's residents, generally are whiter, poorer and less educated than Ohio as a whole. ... In Clark County, it's clear not all of these blue-collar voters are sold on Trump. His protectionist promises and rhetoric about job-stealing immigrants resonate with some of the county's fence-sitters. But many others are turned off by his inability to campaign with discipline and stay on point on the topics they care about."

Why not Y-town? The Trump campaign, reports M.L. Schultze of WKSU, has pulled television ads from the airwaves in the Youngstown media market, where the Republican's populist, anti-trade message could appeal to voters who traditionally back Democrats for president.

"The rural areas were so strongly for him anyways that, why waste the money when your support was solid anyways?" GOP media consultant Robert Clegg tells Schultze. "His problem in Ohio, and in states like Florida and North Carolina were the suburban areas around the urbans."

Here's the thing about that: Youngstown isn't rural. The media market reaches such areas, sure – particularly in Columbiana County. But it is anchored by the urban cores of Youngstown and Warren and their blue-collar suburbs. Maybe Trump sees this as solid ground. It's certainly promising ground for him, even if he can't flip the Mahoning and Trumbull counties red. But given the region's rich Democratic past, it's not one Trump should take for granted.

Stuck in the middle: Ohio Senate President Keith Faber met with cleveland.com editors and reporters Monday and was asked about the feud that erupted over the weekend between Trump's Ohio campaign director and Ohio GOP Chairman Matt Borges, Peter Krouse reports.

Faber, who believes Trump will win Ohio, said that "in conversations, Borges has been very supportive of the Trump campaign. 'But, I can tell you,' [Faber] said, 'it isn't good for a campaign or a party to have a rift going into the last three weeks of an election.'"

Mingo Junction: Think Ohio Republicans are ready for 2016 to be over? Franklin County Auditor Clarence Mingo just took a big step toward 2018. Michael Hartley, a GOP operative with close ties to Gov. John Kasich, announced Monday that he has signed on to help Mingo explore a run for statewide office (likely treasurer). I have more on the move here.

More on the 2018 watch: Likely U.S. Senate candidate Josh Mandel, Ohio's term-limited Republican state treasurer, faces some questions from cleveland.com's Jackie Borchardt in this story about a state investment program his office administers for local governments.

Get Battleground Briefing, our FREE politics newsletter, delivered to your inbox: Sign up here. Tips or links? Send here. Follow along on Twitter: @HenryJGomez.
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
