
John Kasich on Donald Trump's rigged election claims: 'That's a big fat joke.'
Newspaper October 19, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Section: Open 361 Words
John Kasich on Donald Trump's rigged election claims: 'That's a big fat joke.'
CLEVELAND, Ohio -- GOP Ohio Gov. John Kasich invoked a tin-foil hat conspiracy on Wednesday when he was asked about Republican nominee Donald Trump's claims that the November election could be stolen from him through voter fraud.

"Look, to say elections are rigged and all these votes are stolen, that's like saying we never landed on the moon, frankly," Kasich said during a Wednesday morning appearance on CBS This Morning. "That's how silly it is. No, I just don't think that's good for our country, for our democracy, and I don't believe that we that we have any massive fraud."

Kaisch added: "One of my great friends here is the head of the Board of Elections. We don't have that. That's just a silly argument The problem is it does create doubt in people's minds, and I worry about 25 percent of Americans who may say when an election was over it was stolen. That is a big fat joke."

Trump in recent days repeatedly has said the election could be "stolen" at the ballot box — something that has been rigorously contested by Kasich, Republican Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted, voting-rights advocates and others — and called for his supporters to head to polling places to look for irregularities. Cuyahoga County elections officials said this week they are concerned about the effect of Trump's supercharged rhetoric, and that they are looking into heightened security measures on Election Day.

http://www.cleveland.com/open/index.ssf/2016/08/ohio_secretary_of_state_jon_hu_8.html

Elections officials say that voter fraud does happen, but occurs rarely — at the very most 100 times out of 5.6 million votes cast in Ohio during the 2012 presidential election according to the Ohio Secretary of State's Office — on a scale nowhere near what would be required to sway a state or national election.

http://www.cleveland.com/open/index.ssf/2016/10/donald_trumps_rigged_talk_conc.html

During the Wednesday interview, Kasich also expressed support for the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade agreement between the U.S. and 11 other Pacific Rim countries — but not China. The deal, which Trump has criticized, awaits ratification by Congress. When asked, he also once again said he will not be voting for Trump, but wouldn't say whom he might vote for instead.

Ohio Gov. Kasich: Trump's "rigged" election claim is "silly"
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
