
Trump campaign, Ohio GOP ask federal judge not to limit poll watchers
Newspaper November 2, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Author: Eric Heisig, cleveland.com Section: Court-Justice 618 Words
Trump campaign, Ohio GOP ask federal judge not to limit poll watchers
CLEVELAND, Ohio — A lawyer for Donald Trump's campaign wrote in a brief filed Wednesday that the Republican candidate's statements encouraging supporters to watch the polls for Democratic voter fraud are protected speech and that preventing supporters from espousing those same views near polling places on Election Day would trample on their free-speech rights.

Chad Readler, an attorney for the Jones Day law firm, wrote that a lawsuit filed in federal court in Cleveland Sunday by the Ohio Democratic Party is based on "miscellaneous long-ago statements, vague innuendo, rank speculation, and a heavy dose of rhetoric." The suit says Republicans are engaging in voter intimidation.

He wrote that Trump and other candidates "are perfectly within their rights to encourage their supporters to serve as poll watchers" and that an order preventing supporters from harassing or intimidating voters outside of polling places would violate the First Amendment.

If U.S. District Judge James Gwin were to grant the restraining order requested by Democrats, Trump supporters would be forbidden from protesting against a candidate several hundred feet away from a polling place, from "suggesting" that someone illegally voting may be subject to prosecution "or from simply asking fellow citizens for whom they voted," the brief says.

The brief also says that the order as requested "threatens to limit the Campaign's right to reach voters outside the polling place as well as the ability to collect voting data inside the polling place for traditional get-out-the-vote activities, as authorized under Ohio law."

In a separate brief, the Ohio Republican Party asks Gwin to dismiss the lawsuit, writing that the Democrats have not proven their case and that state law already prohibits many of the activity the Democrats seek to restrict.

(You can read the briefs filed by Trump campaign and the Ohio Republican Party at the bottom of this story.)

The Ohio Democratic Party was one of four state parties to sue the Republicans. Other suits were filed in Pennsylvania, Nevada and Arizona, three other swing states.

The lawsuit says Trump and his surrogates have said in recent weeks that voter fraud is rampant and encouraged his supporters to monitor the polls for election fraud. To Democrats, these efforts show a conspiracy to intimidate voters in the black community and other groups, especially in left-leaning cities such as Cleveland.

Read more: Ohio Democratic Party sues state Republicans, Trump campaign, alleges voter intimidation tactics

Trump's campaign calls the lawsuits "four coordinated attacks across the country that are clearly long-planned efforts to sow chaos in the Defendants' political efforts, while garnering maximum publicity for Plaintiff's unsubstantiated, inflammatory claims on the eve of the Presidential Election."

Elections officials from both parties, as well as independent experts, say election fraud is very rare, and to the extent that it does happen, it occurs on a scale too small to influence a national election.

Further, longtime Trump adviser Roger Stone and his groups have recruited people to watch and survey polling places, the suit says. Stone's campaign had not filed a response to the lawsuit by the end of business Wednesday, a deadline set by Gwin.

The judge had ordered the defendants to give any objections to entering an order "limiting voter intimidation" or "limiting people at polling locations who are not authorized poll watchers or outside the polling stations."

The Trump campaign's brief says the Democrats have shown no evidence of a conspiracy. It notes that David Pepper, the Ohio Democratic Party's chairman, has admitted that the lawsuit was not filed because of any actual voter intimidation in Ohio.

Read more: Donald Trump leads Hillary Clinton by 5 points in Ohio, new poll finds
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
