
Donald Trump won Ohio with big victories in small places: Ohio Politics Roundup
Newspaper November 10, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Section: Open 1044 Words
Donald Trump won Ohio with big victories in small places: Ohio Politics Roundup
Trump won Ohio with gains in small counties. Though the Buckeye State predicted his victory, its bellwether status may be in jeopardy. And Trump's victory ruined the plans of Ohio Republicans angling for big breaks.

Read more in today's Ohio Politics Roundup.

Buckeye State takeaways: President-elect Donald Trump won big in Ohio — with gains in a lot of small Buckeye State counties, cleveland.com Data Analysis Editor Rich Exner reports.

Trump earned 70 percent of the vote or more in 30 of the state's 88 counties.

Trump won by 454,983 votes in Ohio.

But Cuyahoga County, home to Cleveland, remained strongly Democratic.

"For the second presidential election in a row, the Democratic candidate did better in Cuyahoga County than any other county in Ohio," Exner reports. "Clinton carried 65.8 percent of the vote to Trump's 30.8 percent, resulting in a 204,080-lead heading into the final official count."

Bottom line?

"Ohio extended its longest-in-the-nation streak of voting with the national winner to 14 straight elections. Not since 1960, when Richard Nixon defeated John Kennedy in Ohio but lost the national race, has Ohio gone against the national trend," Exner writes.

Bellwether status not exactly unscathed: Pundits doubted whether Ohio would predict the presidential winner this year. Polls here showed that the state leaned Trump, even as national surveys showed Trump losing the race.

Ohio was right: Trump won. But his win here did not mirror the results in other toss-up states or national trends.

The billionaire won the Buckeye State in a landslide, unlike other swing states, like Florida and North Carolina, cleveland.com reporter Andrew J. Tobias writes. And in the national contest, Clinton won the popular vote.

"The disparity between Ohio and the national election, as well as with other battleground states, reinforces the view by political observers that due to shifting national demographics, Ohio is winding down its tendency to reflect the nation at large," Tobias writes.

"The clearest legacy of Ohio's bellwether status is its now 56-year streak of picking the winning president," Tobias writes. "But Ohio's population largely has remained the same, while other states have attracted college-educated residents and become increasingly diverse, particularly by adding Hispanics. This has resulted in an Ohio electorate that is whiter, with lower education levels and a lower median income than the national average. And so, political experts — Republicans and Democrats — widely expected that Trump might win Ohio on Tuesday, although they envisioned him doing so on the path to ultimately losing the race."

Trump's win and the Ohio GOP: Ohio Gov. John Kasich and Ohio Republican Party Chairman Matt Borges expected Trump to lose the presidential race. And the billionaire's victory spoiled their blueprints for the future, cleveland.com reporter Henry J. Gomez writes.

Kasich, who fell short in his own bid for the GOP presidential nomination, was preparing a Thursday speech in Washington, where he would outline his Trump-free vision for his party and country. It would be an early first step toward another run in 2020.

Borges, a Kasich ally, was angling to be the next Republican National Committee chairman. He would build his case on his success in a key battleground and on his ability to navigate messy political circumstances. But for this to work, Trump probably had to win Ohio and lose the Electoral College to Hillary Clinton.

Finally, the wall: Trump promised a wall across the Mexican border. What kind of wall? Newly re-elected Republican U.S. Sen. Rob Portman offers an alternative, cleveland.com reporter Jeremy Pelzer reports.

"I don't know if it will be a physical wall everywhere across the border, or whether you can do this with a virtual wall in certain areas where a wall might not be practical," Portman said.

Portman, speaking in Columbus on the day after he soundly beat Democrat Ted Strickland, said he was optimistic he could work effectively with Trump on issues including trade and immigration. The senator had withdrawn his endorsement of Trump before the election following the release of a tape showing Trump making vulgar remarks about women.

Glass ceiling intact: Clinton lost. That reality dashed the dreams of many women across the country, who hoped to see a woman shatter the glass ceiling. But Clinton's flawed candidacy defied polls and predictions. Voters disliked the well-known and controversial candidate, and made their disdain clear at the polls.

But significant breakthroughs for women still peek through the bitter politics.

Read more in my report.

History in the making: Already missing Clinton? If you're a Kent State University student, you can enroll in a course on the former secretary of state.

"'Hillary Clinton Case Study: Perspectives on Gender and Power,' will explore the cultural perception of the former first lady, U.S. senator and secretary of state," cleveland.com reporter Karen Farkas writes.

Voter fraud! Not really: A clerical error in North Ridgeville resulted in someone using a man's name to vote before he went to cast a ballot, cleveland.com reporter Evan MacDonald writes.

"The mix-up did not stop the man from voting. Correcting it also did not cancel out another voter's ballot," MacDonald reports.

Ohio Supreme Court: The presidential race wasn't the only important contest on Tuesday. A seat on the Ohio Supreme Court remains in play.

"Appellate Judge Pat Fischer appeared to eke out a narrow victory Tuesday night to win a seat on the Ohio Supreme Court, but the race is so tight it will be some time before Ohio knows for sure," cleveland.com reporter Bob Higgs reports. "The statewide unofficial count from Tuesday evening showed Fischer, a judge on the 1st Ohio District Court of Appeals in Cincinnati, leading Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Judge John O'Donnell by 0.62 percent. The vote margin between the two was less than 24,300 in a race that drew nearly 4 million votes." There are still absentee and provisional votes to be counted.

Get Battleground Briefing, our FREE politics newsletter, delivered to your inbox: Sign up here. Tips or links? Send here. Follow along on Twitter: _marykilpatrick
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
