
Donald Trump says he might not accept an election loss as legitimate during final presidential debate
Newspaper October 19, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Section: Open 1193 Words
Donald Trump says he might not accept an election loss as legitimate during final presidential debate
CLEVELAND, Ohio — During Wednesday night's third and final presidential debate, Republican nominee Donald Trump would not commit to conceding the November election if he were to lose the race.

In doing so, Trump left open the possibility that he will obstruct what moderator Chris Wallace referred to as "one of the prides of this country ... the peaceful transition of power." Election officials — Republican and Democrat — have responded with alarm as Trump has raised the specter that somehow the election could be stolen from him at the ballot box, even though evidence shows that voter fraud is rare and not significant enough to swing a national election.

"I will tell you at the time," Trump told Wallace, and millions of TV viewers. "I will keep you in suspense."

Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton called Trump's response "horrifying" and said Trump's go-to move is to declare the process "rigged" any time he begins to fall behind, tallying off Trump's grievances with the justice system, the Republican primary rules, and even the Emmy voting when Trump's former show, "The Apprentice," didn't win that year's award.

"This is his mindset," Clinton said. "This is the way that Donald thinks. It's funny, but it's also troubling."

Trump's remarkable answer, which contradicted earlier reassurances from his running mate, Republican Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, came about an hour into the 90-minute debate in Las Vegas.

It did little to address concerns over whether the mercurial Trump has the basic temperament needed to make life-and-death decisions, or to unite a politically fractured country.

American Muslims in Cleveland react to the debate

The debate otherwise hewed toward a more traditional conservative/liberal contrast on the issues that have come to define the Republican and Democratic parties. Trump turned in his strongest performance yet, relatively speaking, but it still likely wasn't enough to alter the basic forces of this election, which is nearing its bitter end.

A more substantive debate

Polls show most voters dislike both Clinton and Trump, and the tone of the race, which bottomed out at the previous debate when Trump trotted out women who had accused President Bill Clinton of sexually assaulting them over the years, has taken its toll on anyone who has paid attention.

So Wednesday's debate was refreshing in that the candidates were pressed to articulate their position on key issues like the Supreme Court, abortion, gun access, immigration and more.

Clinton and Trump have clearly opposing positions that generally track with their respective parties. Trump said he'd like to appoint justices who will overturn Roe V. Wade, the seminal Supreme Court ruling that established legal abortion. Clinton said she would appoint pro-choice judges who would uphold same-sex marriage.

Trump said he wants to cut business and corporate taxes, which he said would result in companies investing in their U.S. holdings. Clinton said she wants to raise taxes on anyone making more than $250,000 a year to help pay for jobs training, college tuition assistance and other programs.

Clinton benefited in that her answers — and policies — demonstrated a better grasp of the complicated set of issues involved with being president. Trump benefited because by spending more time on the issues, the basic contours of the election — like whether the United States should further retrench its military presence in the Middle East by establishing a no-fly zone in Syria — begin to bend more in his favor as an opposition candidate.

Clinton turns a losing question into a winning response

Wallace hit Clinton with a tough question about a 2013 speech she gave to a Brazilian bank — that her "dream is a hemispheric common market with open trade and open borders."

She briefly clarified that she was referring to energy trading. She then pivoted to say that the speech transcript was stolen by Russian hackers — which American intelligence agencies have tied to the Russian government — and posted to the Internet via Wikileaks to try to influence the American election.

Pressed by Wallace, Trump refused to acknowledge that Russia is likely behind the attacks. (Pence during a television interview on Sunday acknowledged that "the evidence" points to Russia behind the hacks.)

"I don't know Putin," Trump said. "He's said nice things about me. If we got along well, that would be good. If Russia got along well, that would be good."

"That's because he wants a puppet, not a president," Clinton responded. "It's clear you won't acknowledge Russia is behind the hacks. Sign his wish list. Break up NATO, whatever he wants to do. And you will continue to get help from him. Because he has a very clear favorite in this race. I think this is an unprecedented situation."

Trump never returned to the "open borders" line, but did later try to clarify his position that NATO allies don't pay enough for the protection the United States offers.

This was just one example where Trump could have dug into Clinton, or advanced an argument for his own candidacy, but instead seemed to lose focus, particularly as the debate got into its later stages.

The candidates tried out some new attack lines

Clinton further refined her response to an oft-used Trump line — that her 30 years of being involved in government and politics haven't produced better results. She contrasted her record pushing for advancements for children, African-Americans and women, with Trump's experience as a developer who got into the business with help from his father before he moved his way into entertainment, insulting a Latin-American beauty queen for gaining weight and later hosting a reality show.

In doing so, Clinton attempted to present herself as the serious candidate, and Trump as a cruel celebrity interloper. She also referenced full-page newspaper ads Trump took out in 1987 attacking then-President Ronald Reagan.

Trump, who appeared to be more prepared for Wednesday's debate than he had in the past, had some effective counters to Clinton's attacks.

Clinton charged that Trump pushes for tougher policies on Chinese imports, but he himself used imported Chinese steel in his buildings. Trump responded that he would like to use American steel, but that policies from Clinton and other politicians made it difficult for him to do so.

"You ask about Chinese steel," Trump said. "You make it impossible for me to do that. I wouldn't mind. The problem is you talk, but you don't get anything done."

The moderator kept himself out of the story

Moderator Chris Wallace ran a tight ship, cutting off the candidates and directing them back to his questions. As promised, he didn't jump in to correct the candidates — he could have pushed Trump harder on his shifting stances on abortion over the last 20 years — but kept out of the way of Clinton and Trump as they debated.

In short, Wallace likely will avoid being the story. Like sports referees, that's a good position for a moderator to be in.

Clinton and Trump both shook Wallace's hand at the debate's conclusion. They did not do the same with each other.
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
