
Rep. Jim Clyburn weighs in on Jeff Sessions confirmation hearings
Newspaper January 11, 2017 | Post and Courier, The: Web Edition Articles (Charleston, SC)
Author: Emma Dumain Section: News 582 Words

WASHINGTON — U.S. Rep. Jim Clyburn doesn't get to vote on whether U.S. Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., will be the next attorney general, but the South Carolina lawmaker watched portions of the marathon Senate confirmation hearing Tuesday with a critical eye.

The Palmetto State's only Democrat in Congress and highest ranking African-American on Capitol Hill told The Post and Courier one exchange struck a particular chord.

It occurred when U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, mentioned the 1985 case where Sessions, then Alabama's attorney general, prosecuted three black civil rights activists for voter fraud. They were ultimately acquitted.

Clyburn knew two of the three defendants at the center of that controversy — a husband and wife — from his work in the civil rights movement and as a leading member of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee.

"This was the big thing that kept him from the federal bench," Clyburn said of the circumstances surrounding Sessions' failure to be confirmed as a judge in 1986 when various charges of racism were brought to light that continue to haunt him.

"When somebody says you unfairly prosecuted some African-Americans for voter fraud in Alabama," Cornyn told Sessions, "it strikes me as incomplete ... when they leave out the fact that the very complainants in that case were African-Americans. In other words, the people you prosecuted were African-Americans, but the people whose voting rights you were trying to vindicate were also African-Americans, isn't that correct?"

Sessions replied in the affirmative.

"Does that strike you as a fair characterization of your approach towards enforcing the law that people would leave that important factor out?" Cornyn pushed.

Sessions replied that it was not.

To Clyburn, the framing of Cornyn's question betrayed the extent to which Republicans are seeking to re-frame the narrative about Sessions.

"They're making an argument that Sessions should not be held responsible for bringing this false claim, that the black folks who came to him should," Clyburn said.

Moreover, as a former high school history teacher, Clyburn saw precedent in Cornyn's rhetorical strategy and connections to South Carolina's own past.

"The person who gave false testimony against Robert Smalls to get Robert Smalls out of office was a black guy," Clyburn said. "The person who gave up Denmark Vesey, that led to his hanging, was a black guy."

Smalls was a black U.S. congressman representing South Carolina's 5th District during Reconstruction, and Vesey was a Charlestonian and a former slave who plotted a major slave rebellion in 1822.

"Because of the white power structure, go out and get one or two black people to do their dirty work," Clyburn said, linking the more recent episode with the historical ones. "That's all this was."

Senate Judiciary Committee members concluded their questioning of Sessions after more than 10 hours on Tuesday night. On Wednesday, a whole roster of other witnesses will present arguments for or against Sessions, including some of Clyburn's fellow Democrats and members of the Congressional Black Caucus: CBC Chairman Cedric Richmond of Louisiana, civil rights icon John Lewis of Georgia and U.S. Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey.

Clyburn said he was most interested in hearing from Booker, the only U.S. senator in the institution's history to testify against a colleague up for a nomination.

"All these senators who talk about comity driving their votes," Clyburn said. "(Booker) is remaining true to a cause."

South Carolina's U.S. senators, Republicans Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott, plan to vote in favor of Sessions, saying they don't believe he has been motivated by racism at any point in his legal or political career.
Copyright, 2017, The Post and Courier. All Rights Reserved.
