
News digest
Newspaper December 2, 2016 | Providence Journal (RI)
Section: RI News 370 Words
Article Page: 2
News digest
Portsmouth canvassers may seek election probe

PORTSMOUTH — The Board of Canvassers is meeting in executive session Friday "to review information" regarding the November election that could lead to a police investigation, said Registrar of Voters Jacqueline Schulz.

The information was discovered during the auditing process, she said.

She would not say what the information was about, but said it should be available after the closed meeting, when the board could decide whether to file a police report, she said.

According to the Newport Daily News, the issue is centered on a possible case of voter fraud. The newspaper reported that a post-election audit showed "a potential irregularity necessitating the probe."

The story said that the person whose ballot is being checked has not been notified. The canvassers meeting will be in executive session because the voter will be identified.

The meeting is at 1 p.m. at Town Hall, Schulz said.

— Carol Kozma

No verdict yet as Doyle jury reviews testimony

SOUTH KINGSTOWN — Jurors in Dan Doyle's embezzlement trial will return Friday for another day of deliberations after completing a third full day of discussions Thursday without reaching a verdict.

Doyle, 67, of West Hartford, Connecticut, is accused of taking more than $1 million from his nonprofit Institute for International Sports in unauthorized salary, bonuses, and benefits. He faces 18 counts, including embezzlement, fraud and forgery.

Around 2:30 p.m. Thursday, the parties in the case returned to the courtroom to listen as a stenographer read back testimony given earlier by Laurie DeRuosi, a witness in the 11-week-long trial.

DeRuosi prepared the annual reports for the institute at least between the years 2005 and 2009. Under direct questioning from a prosecutor, she said she had signed the signature of Russell Hogg, the board's president, at Dan Doyle’s direction each year except for the year 2009, when she said Doyle signed the name of the new board president, Alan Hassenfeld.

But under cross-examination, Doyle’s defense attorney, Michael Blanchard, reminded DeRuosi that during her grand jury testimony in 2012, she said she could not remember if Doyle saw those annual reports before they were mailed out.

The state called 53 witnesses during the trial, before Superior Court Judge Melanie Wilk Thunberg, while the defense called 12.

— Tom Mooney
Copyright © 2016 Providence Journal, All Rights Reserved.
