
Secretary of State Gorbea: Fraud did not cost Trump votes in R.I.
Newspaper January 25, 2017 | Providence Journal: Web Edition Articles (RI)
Author: Katherine Gregg Section: News 570 Words

PROVIDENCE, R.I. -- Secretary of State Nellie Gorbea wants to assure voters - and new President Donald J. Trump - that "widespread voter fraud" did not cost him the votes he lost to Hillary Clinton in Rhode Island.

Responding to Republican Trump's call for an investigation of the alleged fraud he blames for his national popular vote loss to Clinton by more than 2.9 million votes, Gorbea issued this statement:

"As Rhode Island's Secretary of State, I am working hard to ensure that our elections are fair, fast and accurate. Over the past two years Rhode Island has taken steps to improve the security of our voting systems so that Rhode Island voters can trust the integrity of every vote.

"We continue to work with local elections authorities to ensure that our voting lists are up to date and accurate. It is outrageous that the President continues to make unsubstantiated claims about alleged widespread voter fraud."

Added Steven Brown, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of RI, in his own statement: "President Trump's irresponsible accusations concerning widespread voter fraud have no basis in fact, and can only fuel confusion and reckless calls for policies that promote the suppression of legitimate votes.

"Unfortunately, Rhode Island bears some responsibility for giving this falsehood credence. By enacting voter ID legislation five years ago, Rhode Island played into the unfounded fears about in-person identification fraud that the President is now exploiting.

"From our poll monitoring, we know that this totally unnecessary barrier to voting has led to the disenfranchisement of some Rhode Islanders each election. It is time for the state to repeal voter ID."

U.S. Rep. David N. Cicilline said:

"Don't be misled by Donald Trump's ridiculous claims. This isn't about voter fraud. It's just a front to justify an effort to deny millions of minorities and working families the opportunity to participate in our democracy."

The new Republican president, who was sworn into office last Friday, has bristled at references to his national popular vote loss to Clinton, and insisted he would have won that too were it not for the votes of 3 to 5 million unauthorized immigrants.

Trump, a real estate mogul and one-time reality television star, has thus far been unable to substantiate his fraud claim, which he repeated in his first official meeting with congressional leaders on Monday, despite what has been described in the national media as an "overwhelming consensus among state officials, election experts and politicians that voter fraud is rare in the United States."

President Trump used his first official meeting with congressional leaders on Monday to falsely claim that millions of unauthorized immigrants had robbed him of a popular vote majority, a return to his obsession with the election's results even as he seeks support for his legislative agenda.

As has become his wont, Trump announced his intent to ask for a "major investigation" into the November election results in two posts moments apart on Twitter on Wednesday morning:

"I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and...even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time). Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures!"

He did not elaborate.

In Rhode Island, Democrat Clinton beat Republican Trump 54.4 percent to 38.9 percent with 252,525 votes to his 180,543 votes, and single digit tallies for each of the other candidates on the ballots.
Copyright © 2017 Providence Journal, All Rights Reserved.
