
Voter fraud? Appears Trump's spokesman registered in R.I. and Va.
Newspaper January 26, 2017 | Providence Journal: Web Edition Articles (RI)
Author: Katherine Gregg Section: News 833 Words

PROVIDENCE — A man with the same name and birth date as President Donald Trump's press secretary, Sean M. Spicer, is registered to vote in two states: Rhode Island and Virginia.

Unless there is some explanation for Spicer's voter registration in Barrington, Rhode Island, and Alexandria, Virginia, it would appear that he is the latest in Trump's inner circle to emerge as a registered voter in more than one state since the new president called for a "major investigation" of the "widespread voter fraud" he blames for his 2.9-million-vote loss to Democrat Hillary Clinton in the national popular vote.

The Washington Post has now identified four Trump family members or top administration appointees who were registered in two states during last fall's election. The others are chief White House strategist Stephen Bannon; Tiffany Trump, the president's youngest daughter; Treasury Secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin, as first reported by CNN; and Jared Kushner, Trump's son-in-law and one of his closest White House advisers.

While Trump — who won the electoral vote but not the popular vote — has not yet produced evidence of the widespread voter fraud he alleges, he has cited registration to vote in more than one state as an example.

"You have people that are registered who are dead, who are illegals, who are in two states," the president told ABC's David Muir on Wednesday. "You have people registered in two states. They're registered in a New York and a New Jersey. They vote twice. There are millions of votes, in my opinion."

According to the town of Barrington, a Sean M. Spicer has been registered to vote in the East Bay town since 1990. He is currently registered as a Republican at the same Barrington address as his mother. It does not appear that he has voted in Rhode Island since 1998.

Meanwhile, in Alexandria, Virginia, Deputy Registrar Angela Maniglia-Turner confirmed: "We do have a Sean Spicer with that date of birth registered in the city." He has been registered there since Sept. 21, 1999. She said she was not allowed to provide information about voting history over the phone.

The Providence Journal has reached out to the White House press office for an explanation, and to Spicer directly via email and Twitter. An automated email reply said: "I am Currently out of the office and traveling with the President."

A spokeswoman for R.I. Secretary of State Nellie Gorbea said voters are "encouraged," but under no legal obligation to cancel their old voter registration when they move.

"Federal and state law provide four ways for cities and towns to legally remove individuals from the voter rolls," said the spokeswoman, Nicole Lagace. "The voter notifies the local city/town that they have moved. The voter dies and we receive an official death notice. The voter is marked inactive because an official piece of elections mail has been returned undeliverable and the inactive voter does not vote in two subsequent federal elections ....The voter is convicted of a felony."

She said: "Mr. Spicer has not been marked inactive in the central voter registration database because election mail has not been returned undeliverable from his address to the town of Barrington. If Mr. Spicer is registered and actively voting in another state, we encourage him to contact the town of Barrington to notify them of his change of address.''

A Barrington native who attended Portsmouth Abbey School, Spicer worked for the Republican National Committee as communication director and later chief strategist before landing a spot on Trump's team.

His new job placed him smack in the middle of the already tense relationship between the press and Trump, who has routinely called the media "distorted and inaccurate."

The new Republican president has bristled at references to his popular vote loss to Clinton, and insisted he would have won that too were it not for the votes of 3 million to 5 million unauthorized immigrants. Trump, a real estate mogul and one-time reality television star, has so far been unable to substantiate his fraud claim.

When grilled on the subject by reporters on Tuesday, "Spicer tried to deflect and restate his previous boilerplate answer — that Trump believes what he believes," according to the Washington Post. When pressed, Spicer reportedly said: "We're here on Day Two. I think let's not prejudge what we may do in the future."

On Wednesday, Trump announced his intent to ask for a "major investigation" into the November election results in two posts moments apart on Twitter that said: "I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and ... even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time). Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures!"

Trump's son-in-law, Kushner, who is married Trump's daughter Ivanka, is registered to vote in both New Jersey and New York, according to the Washington Post, which cited its findings as another high-profile example of how common it is for voters to hold dual registrations.

With reports from Journal staff writer Patrick Anderson
Copyright © 2017 Providence Journal, All Rights Reserved.
