
POLITICS - Nastiest campaign season ever? - Maybe not: Historians and scholars assess the Trump/Clinton 'sewer'
Newspaper November 6, 2016 | Providence Journal (RI)
Author: G. Wayne Miller | Journal Staff Writer Section: RI News 906 Words
Article Page: 1

PROVIDENCE — Put aside your electoral exhaustion for a moment to ponder this: With its scurrilous allegations, hysterical rants, undisguised hatreds, chilling threats and naked falsehoods, just how does this season of America’s discontent rate historically?

If the measure is the Civil War, during which as many as 750,000 Americans died at the hands of one another, it rates pretty low. Ditto regarding the Revolutionary War, when tens of thousands of colonists loyal to the crown fled to Canada and elsewhere.

But we speak more specifically of presidential campaigns, the latest being these waged by Republican Donald Trump and Democrat Hillary Clinton, which will end with a clear winner on Tuesday — we hope.

Some historians cite the 1828 election, pitting John Quincy Adams against Andrew Jackson, as the most vile campaign ever. Adams supporters called Jackson’s wife “a convicted adultress” and his mother “a common prostitute.” Jackson backers accused Adams of having engaged in premarital sex with his wife (a grievous sin back then, but not worth mentioning today) and acting as a pimp by arranging a hooker for Czar Alexander I.

Given how the 2016 campaigns have unfolded, one might call such mudslinging fiendishly prescient.

Luigi Bradizza, a professor of political science at Salve Regina University, pointed to another long-ago campaign as a notable stink-filled show.

“The election of 1800, which pitted John Adams against Thomas Jefferson, was extremely vicious and highly divisive,” he said. Slander and personal attacks were the order of that day, too (had there been cameras, it would have been a reality show).

Providence College Prof. Joseph Cammarano, a presidential scholar and chairman of Public and Community Service Studies, also has 1800 on his list of insufferably noisome presidential contests — together with 1860, when Republican Abraham Lincoln beat Democrat John C. Breckinridge. But he said 1876 may be the worst ever.

“It was a year when massive voter fraud in the North was assumed, and armed bands of Southerners retaliated by preventing blacks from voting in the South,” Cammarano said.

“Three states in the South had contended outcomes, and most assume there were fraudulent outcomes in the North.

“The popular vote winner, Samuel Tilden, was called a briber, adulterer and a syphilitic.

“Rutherford Hayes won, after months of uncertainty, in a backroom deal that ended Reconstruction in the South, paving the way for a century of racial segregation.”

Chad Raymond, a political scientist and chairman of Salve’s Department of Cultural, Environmental and Global Studies, looked to the more recent past, comparing 2016 to the 1968 campaign of third-party candidate George Wallace, who “used xenophobic and bigoted messaging to target white voters who feel economically insecure and alienated from the political system.”



Along with the 1800 and 1828 contests, which he called “very contentious and dirty,” Raymond’s Salve colleague, history professor and Pell Center fellow William P. Leeman, also compared this year to 1968. He, too, cites the Wallace campaign’s “use of hateful language, its emphasis on law and order, and its professed goal of restoring America’s image of strength in the world.”

Stephen Kinzer, senior fellow in International and Public Affairs at Brown University’s Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs and a former New York Times writer, said that during the Cold War, “Americans were united by fear of an enemy.” When that ended, he said, campaigns began to turn ugly.

Unity, Kinzer said, “began to break down with Republican efforts to destroy the first post-Cold War president, Bill Clinton. The viciousness of political attacks escalated when George W. Bush decreed the invasion of Iraq, which led many opponents of the war to denounce him as the devil incarnate. Then it was Obama’s turn.

“Now, with voters forced to choose between two candidates who are widely disliked, the hate machine has been turned up even further. We have not seen such poisonous rhetoric in any modern campaign. The question is whether we have reached the bottom of this sewer or if we will continue hurtling downward.”



Rhode Island College’s Valerie A. Endress, a professor of communications and the director of the school’s American Democracy Project, suggests that hurtling downward may indeed be the trajectory. She has studied elections for four decades, and argues that today’s 24-hour news cycle and the inescapable presence of social media generate a heat impossible before the digital age.

“We have witnessed intense party rivalries in the past, but the public, at least in the general election, has been shielded from harsh personal attacks about character and private lives,” Endress said.

“Yes, elections in the 19th century engaged in personal attacks, but audiences were much smaller, were composed primarily of party loyalists, and their words were not repeated through mass media,” Endress said.

This election has been so brazenly crude, she maintains, that “I have heard consistently from parents of adolescents that they could not allow their children to watch the general-election debates because of the name-calling and personal attacks.”

Salve’s Bradizza asserts that just as in the aftermath of other historically malodorous campaigns, “we will survive this election, too.

As in the case of the aftermath of the 1800 election, passions will cool, and Americans on both sides will return to more civilly expressed disagreements.”

Endress is less sanguine.

“The public has demonstrated even less confidence in public institutions and elected officials,” she said. “We’re even at a point in which some are questioning whether we can experience a peaceful transference of power — a hallmark of our democracy that seems threatened.”

— gwmiller@providencejournal.com

(401) 277-7380

On Twitter: @GWayneMiller
Copyright © 2016 Providence Journal, All Rights Reserved.
