National Political Briefs for Jan. 26
Newspaper January 25, 2017 | Richmond Times-Dispatch: Web Edition Articles (VA)
Author: Staff Writer Section: News 447 Words

Trump administration may cut U.N. funding

The Trump administration is proposing a 40 percent reduction in voluntary U.S. support for the United Nations and other global bodies, and an end to "wasteful and counterproductive" spending that does not serve U.S. interests, according to a draft of a forthcoming order.

If adopted, the proposed directive would represent a broad attack on the value and priorities of the United Nations, which Trump has recently called an ineffectual talk shop. A separate order would limit U.S. participation in some treaties.

Trump's new U.N. ambassador, Nikki Haley, has pledged to put U.S. interests first and use the leverage of disproportionate U.S. funding of the body. But the draft order would go much further, and with an apparent goal of slashing U.S. participation across a swath of U.N. agencies and activities to which the Trump administration objects on fiscal or ideological grounds.

Protesters climb crane in Washington

WASHINGTON — Activists affiliated with Greenpeace climbed atop a 270-foot construction crane in downtown Washington on Wednesday and unfurled a large orange and black banner with a message positioned for the newest occupant of the White House but meant for those opposed to its agenda: "Resist."

District of Columbia police waited out the seven protesters, shutting down traffic at a major intersection through the morning commute and into the evening and suspending work on new offices for Fannie Mae.

EPA science comes under scrutiny

WASHINGTON — The Trump administration is scrutinizing studies or data published by scientists at the Environmental Protection Agency, and new work is under a "temporary hold" before it can be released.

The communications director for President Donald Trump's transition team at the EPA, Doug Ericksen, said Wednesday that the review extends to all existing content on the federal agency's website, including details of scientific evidence showing that the Earth's climate is warming and man-made carbon emissions are to blame.

Former EPA staffers under both Republican and Democratic presidents said the restrictions imposed under Trump far exceed the practices of past administrations.

'Alternative facts' spur sales of '1984'

NEW YORK — With "alternative facts" the latest catchphrase, George Orwell's "1984" is No. 1 on Amazon.com and the publisher has ordered an additional 75,000 copies.

Signet Classics said in a statement Wednesday that sales have been "remarkably robust" for a book that already is a classroom standard. The publisher noted that books such as Orwell's tap into "the fears, anxieties, and even hopes" of readers.

The heightened interest in Orwell's dystopian classic follows assertions by President Donald Trump and some White House aides about the size of his inaugural crowd and whether voter fraud led him to lose the popular vote to Hillary Clinton last fall.

Administration adviser Kellyanne Conway has called such assertions "alternative facts."
© Copyright 2017, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
