
House subcommittee kills McAuliffe-backed proposal to repeal voter photo ID law
Newspaper January 17, 2017 | Richmond Times-Dispatch: Web Edition Articles (VA)
Author: GRAHAM MOOMAW Richmond Times-Dispatch Section: Virginia 484 Words

A Virginia House of Delegates subcommittee killed a bill to repeal the state's voter photo ID law Tuesday, making short work of a legislative proposal Gov. Terry McAuliffe highlighted this year.

The Republican-controlled House elections subcommittee voted down several other Democratic-sponsored bills to expand absentee and early voting and add out-of-state college IDs and IDs issued by nursing homes to the forms of ID acceptable for voting purposes.

Republican lawmakers argued the ID law is working as intended and suggested that all Virginians can get an acceptable form of ID with little difficulty.

Del. Stephen E. Heretick, D-Portsmouth, sponsored the bill to repeal the photo ID requirement.

One of the few bills to survive the subcommittee would add stricter photo ID rules for absentee voting. It would require would-be voters to enclose a copy of their ID both with their application for an absentee ballot and when returning the ballot itself.

That proposal, sponsored by Del. Hyland F. "Buddy" Fowler Jr., R-Hanover, will go to the House Appropriations Committee for a closer examination of its fiscal impact. In an interview, Fowler said he plans to amend the bill to require an ID only with a ballot application.

"All we're asking is you make a copy and send it in with the application," Fowler said.

Under current law, photo ID is required for in-person absentee voting, but not for ballots filled out remotely. Fowler said his bill would bring uniformity to the process.

McAuliffe called for a full repeal of the law before the 2017 legislative session began last week and repeated the call in his opening speech to lawmakers.

"When it was passed, our photo ID law made it significantly harder for many Virginians to vote, without any evidence that voter fraud is a problem in Virginia," McAuliffe said in the prepared text of his speech.

On Tuesday, Republicans pointed to a few recent examples of voter registration fraud in Harrisonburg and Alexandria to make the case that the ID requirement is a necessary safeguard.

"To say there's no voter fraud is either being willfully ignorant or being naive," said Del. Mark L. Cole, R-Spotsylvania, who chairs the House Privileges and Elections Committee.

Democrats argued that the solution could lie in opening early or absentee voting for a three-week period before elections without needing an excuse for not being able to get to the polls on Election Day.

"Isn't this what everybody wants? They want someone to come in with a photo ID," said Del. Mark D. Sickles, D-Fairfax. "If you're really concerned about voter fraud, this is your bill."

One by one, Republicans voted down the early-voting bills after raising concerns about the logistical and fiscal impact on local registrars. Other bills to add an age-based excuse for absentee voting at either 65 or 80 years old met the same fate.

The subcommittee advanced one bill — patroned by Del. Joseph R. Yost, R-Giles — to allow people granted a protective order to vote absentee.
© Copyright 2017, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
