
Morrissey, Berry, Stoney all make final pushes in 3rd, 5th districts
Newspaper November 8, 2016 | Richmond Times-Dispatch (VA)
Author: NED OLIVER Richmond Times-Dispatch Section: Main 1029 Words
Page: 1A

Richmond's leading mayoral candidates spent the last days of a winding, crowded race focused on winning votes in two council districts that virtually all parties agree will be critical to deciding the election: the 3rd and 5th.

Front-runner Joe Morrissey, a former state delegate and Richmond commonwealth's attorney, began Monday waving to motorists along Semmes Avenue in the 5th, which stretches from Carytown to the edge of the Fan District and across the James River to Swansboro.

He said he believes he has insurmountable leads across four districts that cover East and South Richmond - an assertion supported by polling.

And like all his nearest opponents, he is bullish about his chances in the swing districts: "We could take as many as six wards on Election Day," he said.

If no candidate wins in five of the city's nine districts, then a runoff is triggered between the top two vote-getters citywide.

Former Venture Richmond Director Jack Berry, meanwhile, closed out his day with a rally in the 3rd District, which covers much of North Richmond, straddling Chamberlayne Avenue.

"We feel like we've got so much momentum, that we're going to win District 3 and District 5," said Berry, who has come in second citywide in polling. "And we're already way ahead in three other districts. So we think we're going to win tomorrow."

Berry said he spent Sunday campaigning door to door in the 5th.

Former Secretary of the Commonwealth Levar Stoney has polled in third place citywide. He said he's counting on momentum from a late endorsement from City Councilman Jonathan T. Baliles, who dropped out of the mayoral race and swung his support to Stoney over the weekend.

Baliles was campaigning alongside Stoney on Virginia Commonwealth University's campus Monday morning.

"We've got a great path tomorrow to victory, and I think we might shock some people tomorrow," Stoney said.

City Council President Michelle R. Mosby, who has polled in fourth place citywide, said she spent most of Monday doing behind-the-scenes Election Day planning. She said she expects to have a strong presence at the polls.

Lawrence Williams, an architect, has barely registered in any of the citywide surveys that have been conducted.

Three candidates who dropped out of the race will still appear on the ballot: Baliles, retired real estate consultant Bobby Junes and former Councilman Bruce W. Tyler.

Notices will be posted at polling places alerting voters that Junes dropped out. Richmond Registrar J. Kirk Showalter said that she never received a formal dropout notice from Tyler and that Baliles didn't provide notice to her office until Monday, which she said would make it difficult to get updated notices to all of the city's voter precincts but that she would try.

***

All the leading candidates made lunchtime stops at VCU in the 2nd District and Virginia Union University in the 3rd.

On VCU's campus, Morrissey, who has been battling a fresh round of negative national press, handed literature to students as they made their way between classes. Several recognized him.

"You were in The Huffington Post," said Richard Lee. "The major highlight was you had sex with a young woman in your office."

Morrissey, unfazed, immediately offered to introduce Lee to the woman in question, whom he has since married.

"This is my wife right here," Morrissey said, before launching into a brief discussion about his plan to focus on schools.

Lee said he walked away with a good impression.

"I saw someone on Facebook trashing Morrissey," Lee said. "It was kind of a biased opinion. He seems like a nice guy."

In VUU's dining hall, Berry went from table to table introducing himself to students. He said the scandals that seem to follow Morrissey are a great reason to vote for him instead.

"I think I'm peeling votes away from him," Berry said.

Prieya Taylor, a freshman from Washington, said she planned to vote for Berry because he's the only candidate she'd met in person and he made a good impression.

"I feel like everything he says comes from the heart," she said. "I respect that."

Upon seeing Berry in the dining hall, she asked to take a photo with him, which she immediately sent to her friends on Snapchat.

Stoney, at VCU, found himself surrounded by and then posing for a group photo with a large crowd of sorority sisters who said they are enthusiastic about his candidacy.

"When you think about demographics, young people also desire some new, fresh leadership in City Hall, and I think these are the voters who are ready for our next generation to take the baton and take our city to the next level," he said.

---

Voter fraud complaints

The U.S. Attorney's Office has designated three district election officers to be responsible for handling complaints of election fraud and voting rights abuse on Election Day. From 6 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m., calls should be directed to (703) 299-3700. From 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., calls should be directed to these numbers:

Alexandria - Assistant U.S. Attorney James P. Gillis, (703) 299-3700

Norfolk and Newport News - Assistant U.S. Attorney Randy Stoker, (757) 441-6331

Richmond - Assistant U.S. Attorney L. Margaret Harker, (804) 819-5400

Local registrars

Richmond: (804) 646-5950

Chesterfield: (804) 748-1471

Hanover: (804) 365-6080

Henrico: (804) 501-4347

Petersburg: (804) 733-8071

Hopewell: (804) 541-2232

Colonial Heights: (804) 520-9277

---

noliver@timesdispatch.com

(804) 649-6178

Twitter: @nedoliver
© Copyright 2016, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
