
Federal appeals court upholds Va. voter ID law
Newspaper December 13, 2016 | Richmond Times-Dispatch: Web Edition Articles (VA)
Author: FRANK GREEN Richmond Times-Dispatch Section: Virginia 438 Words

The 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Tuesday turned back a challenge to Virginia's voter photo ID law upheld by a federal judge in Richmond this year.

Last year, the Democratic Party of Virginia and two voters filed a suit alleging that the Republican-controlled General Assembly enacted the law to curb the number of young and minority voters.

In May, after a two-week trial in March, U.S. District Judge Henry E. Hudson upheld the photo ID requirement, and the plaintiffs appealed.

On Tuesday, a three-judge panel of the Richmond-based appeals court upheld Hudson's decision.

"In sum, not only does the substance of (the law) not impose an undue burden on minority voting, there was no evidence to suggest racially discriminatory intent in the law's enactment," Judge Paul V. Niemeyer of the appeals court wrote.

The law requires a voter to have one of the following: a Virginia driver's license; a U.S. passport or any other photo ID issued by the U.S., Virginia or one of its political subdivisions; a student ID issued by any institution of higher learning in Virginia; an employee identification card; or another form of photo ID.

Opponents allege that the requirement violates the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the Constitution and was enacted after the 2012 re-election of President Barack Obama with the intent of reducing the number of voters who traditionally cast ballots for Democrats.

Proponents said the goal was to prevent election fraud. They said the law was race-neutral and that no one lost the right to vote.

Hudson ruled: "While the merits of this voter identification law, and indeed all aspects of Virginia's voting regime, can be reasonably debated, it remains true that Virginia has created a scheme of laws to accommodate all people in their right to vote. From in-person voting, to an absentee option, to provisional ballots with the ability to cure, and the provision of free voter IDs, Virginia has provided all of its citizens with an equal opportunity to participate in the electoral process."

Witnesses testified in March on both sides of the issue. There was little, if any, evidence that either voter fraud was a problem warranting the ID requirements, or that any eligible voter was denied the right to vote — although witnesses for both sides also said that many of the problems are hidden or not apparent.

Voters without valid identification can obtain a free photo voter ID card at a local registrar's office.

Anyone who shows up at the polls without proper ID is allowed to cast a provisional ballot that is counted later, after they are "cured" by presenting valid ID to the registrar's office in person or via fax or email.
© Copyright 2016, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
