
GOP lawmaker calls for removal of election official
Newspaper October 14, 2016 | Richmond Times-Dispatch (VA)
Author: GRAHAM MOOMAW Richmond Times-Dispatch Section: Main 1311 Words
Page: 1A

A committee meeting on Virginia's election readiness turned into a bitter partisan fight Thursday as a Republican state lawmaker called for the removal of the state's top election official and Democrats accused the GOP of following Donald Trump's lead by casting doubt on the upcoming election.

The proceedings turned heated after Virginia Department of Elections Commissioner Edgardo Cortés, an appointee of Gov. Terry McAuliffe, took the podium to defend the state's preparations after roughly a dozen election officials from across Virginia vented about a voter system they described as technologically deficient, underfunded, and susceptible to low-level abuse that often goes unpunished.

Del. Timothy D. Hugo, R-Fairfax, said that the registrars' concerns and the hearing itself reflect directly on Cortés, adding that "the root of the problem is integrity."

"I think it's incumbent upon the governor to replace you quickly with competent and nonpartisan leadership," Hugo said.

"For a delegate or any member of this body to call into question my personal integrity, I just find that quite offensive and beyond the pale," Cortés replied.

McAuliffe's office said the governor has no plans to replace Cortés.

Democrats largely dismissed the proceedings as grandstanding, particularly on the issue of voter fraud, but seemed to share concerns about the reliability and speed of VERIS, the computer system used statewide to register voters and process absentee ballots.

Sen. A. Donald McEachin, D-Henrico, defended Cortés, saying none of the registrars who spoke complained about his performance. The favorite to win Virginia's redrawn 4th Congressional District next month, McEachin said he sees a state poised to again go Democratic in the presidential race and accused his GOP colleagues of "doing exactly what their Republican presidential candidate is doing."

"Which is trying to delegitimize the results of the elections before they take place," McEachin said. "I find that to be abhorrent and shameful."

Sen. Thomas A. Garrett Jr., a Buckingham County Republican running for an opening congressional seat in the 5th District, made a case during the hearing that the state's online voter registration application doesn't comply with state law because it doesn't require all would-be voters to give their last registration address. After the meeting, his campaign put out a news release under the headline: "Garrett Slams Voter Fraud at Joint Committee Hearing."

Republican members of the House of Delegates and Senate Privileges and Elections committees said they called the unusual pre-election meeting to allow the registrars to voice their concerns and hear how the state is addressing them less than 30 days from Election Day.

Hugo insisted his concerns were not partisan, but rather about maintaining public confidence in the state's elections.

"Because I guarantee what's going to happen is the Democrats are going to say Republicans stole the election. And Republicans are going to say the Democrats stole the election," Hugo said. "And it's a messy spiral downward."

Sen. Jill Holtzman Vogel, a Fauquier County Republican who chairs the Senate elections committee, said the goal of the hearing was to find solutions to legitimate problems registrars are experiencing. Some registrars, she said, have said they felt "uneasy" about coming to Richmond to complain in full view of their state counterparts.

"What we've had in this discussion is just the tip of the iceberg of the emails that I have gotten," Vogel said.

Registrars said attempts to query the VERIS system to add a voter or check someone's status are usually instantaneous, but recently they've taken up to 90 seconds. In Chesterfield County, it took officials six minutes to process one voter application using the system. Several registrars said the delays have raised concern over whether the system will be able to produce the electronic pollbooks needed for Election Day.

The high transaction volume of a presidential year led Stafford County Registrar Greg Riddlemoser to hire three more workers "just to sit there and watch the spinning wheel of death," Riddlemoser said.

The committee discussed adding more server capacity for VERIS, but there was confusion over whether the elections agency could do that independently or whether it would have to be done under the state's strained information technology contract with Northrop Grumman.

A recent case of nearly 20 dead people being registered to vote in Harrisonburg also prompted the committee to discuss vulnerabilities that can lead to voter fraud. The case is still under investigation, but officials have said it involved an employee of a third-party registration group using fake Social Security numbers.

Chesterfield Registrar Lawrence C. Haake III said there are several "flavors of voter registration fraud, including fake addresses and handwritten duplicates of an application. "The dangerous one," he said, is "a fake name at a good address."

"That's where you can actually have a ballot going out to a fake person," Haake said.

Several speakers claimed to have experienced voter fraud firsthand, saying the cases were referred to law enforcement but never prosecuted.

Throughout the hearing, Cortés said his agency is doing everything possible to help registrars work through their concerns and prepare for the election. Several attendees, including Cortés, said the issues could be alleviated by adequate funding from the legislature.

"The Frontier Culture Museum of Virginia has slightly more (full-time positions) allotted to them than the Department of Elections," Cortés said.

Some committee members seemed unconvinced by the dire warnings about a potential failure of the election system. Del. Mark D. Sickles, D-Fairfax, called himself "a skeptic on everything."

"The fact that we are contributing to the public not having confidence in our election system is really a bad thing," Sickles said.

Clara Belle Wheeler, a GOP member of the State Board of Elections, noted that the state has prepared 1 million provisional ballots. Cortés acknowledged that's more than usual and said officials are simply preparing for all contingencies, but Wheeler said she sees it as a sign the state knows it's going to need a lot of backup.

"That tells me that somebody's trying to get ready for a disaster," Wheeler said. "The Department of Elections is clearly worried that something is going to go wrong. And we need to know what that is."

The voter registration deadline is Monday.

gmoomaw@timesdispatch.com

(804) 649-6839

Twitter: @gmoomaw
© Copyright 2016, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
