
US attorney takes steps to counter voter fraud in Vt.
Newspaper October 22, 2016 | Rutland Herald (VT)
Author: By Patrick McArdle Staff Writer Section: Local 517 Words
Article Page: 1

Eric Miller, the U.S. attorney for Vermont, is taking a proactive stance against national allegations of voter fraud, improprieties and voter intimidation.

“Every citizen must be able to vote without interference or discrimination and to have that vote counted without it being stolen because of fraud,” Miller said Friday in a statement. “The Department of Justice will act promptly and aggressively to protect the integrity of the election process.”

Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has told his supporters the election will be “rigged” and asked people to volunteer to “monitor” polling sites in certain areas.

In response, many leading political figures, from both parties, have insisted they don’t fear that widespread voter fraud could have an effect on the presidential election.

There have also been questions about whether Trump’s “poll observers” would intimidate voters who wanted to cast a ballot for his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton.

The statement said the U.S. Department of Justice had a “long-standing” program to protect the integrity of elections.

The statement, sent late in the day on Friday, makes no direct reference to Trump or the allegations of a “rigged” election.

Miller said the DOJ program “seeks to ensure public confidence in the integrity of the election process.”

In Vermont, Assistant United States Attorney William Darrow has been appointed as the state’s district election officer. Darrow will be responsible for overseeing how any complaints of voter fraud or voting-rights abuses are handled.

Darrow, who will act in consultation with the DOJ

in Washington, D.C., will be on duty in Vermont while polls are open on Nov. 8. He can be reached at 863-6316.

The FBI will also have special agents available in each field office and resident agency throughout the United States on Nov. 8.

Those agents will be taking reports of fraud or other abuses and can be reached at 863-6316.

“Ensuring free and fair elections depends in large part on the cooperation of the American electorate,” Miller said. “It is imperative that those who have specific information about discrimination or election fraud make that information available immediately to my office, the FBI or the Civil Rights Division.”

The Civil Rights Division’s Voting Section can be reached in Washington, D.C., by phone at 800-253-3931 or 202-307-2767, by fax at 202-307-3961, or by email at voting.section@usdoj.gov.

A complaint form can be found online at www.justice.gov/crt/complaint/votintake/index.php.

Miller noted that federal law protects the public from those who would try to intimidate or bribe voters, as well as crimes including selling votes, impersonating voters, altering the vote count, “stuffing the ballot box” or filling out a ballot without a voter’s consent.

Federal laws have special protections for voters which make it illegal to interrupt of intimidate voters at the polling places by questioning or challenging the voter.

There are also laws against taking photos or video of voters in an attempt to intimidate them under the pretext that images are being used to prove voter fraud.

Miller said in the release that voting is the “cornerstone of American democracy” and citizens must be allowed to vote freely while those who “seek to corrupt it are brought to justice.”

patrick.mcardle @rutlandherald.com
Copyright, 2016, Rutland Herald
