Trump family members, treasury secretary registered to vote in 2 states
Newspaper January 26, 2017 | Seattle Post-Intelligencer (WA)
Section: Local News 540 Words
Trump family members, treasury secretary registered to vote in 2 states
A daughter and son-in-law of President Trump, along with incoming U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, are all registered to vote in two states, which the 45th president is condemning as he makes false claims of voter fraud.

It was revealed Wednesday that White House Strategic Adviser Steve Bannon is registered to vote in both New York and Florida.

The further revelations include:

-- Mnuchin, a key Trump fundraiser, is registered in New York and California. The New York registration is a Park Avenue address where he previously lived, according to CNN, while he voted in this year's California Republican primary from a new address in Bel Air.

-- Jared Kushner, Trump's son-in-law and a top adviser, is registered to vote in both New York and New Jersey.

-- Tiffany Trump, the president's daughter with second wife Marla Maples -- famous for her "best sex I ever had" quote -- is registered in both New York and Pennsylvania.

Trump has been tweeting his brains out about voter fraud, highly sensitive that he lost the 2016 popular vote to Hillary Clinton by a 2.9 million-vote margin. He has produced no evidence to back up his claims but repeated them Wednesday night in an interview with ABC's David Muir.

"You have people registered in two states," Trump told Muir. "They're registered in a New York and a New Jersey. They vote twice. There are millions of votes in my opinion."

Trump was on a tweet roll earlier Wednesday, asking for a "major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and even those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time)."

It is not illegal to be registered to vote in two locations, but it is against the law to cast votes in both locations.

Often, when people move, their names remain on the voter rolls at their previous address. A 2012 Pew Center study found 2.75 million people were registered in more than one state. Trump has cited the study -- falsely -- as evidence of voter fraud.

The 45th president could learn why people are registered in two states by turning to his son-in-law Kushner, to daughter Tiffany, to Treasury Secretary Mnuchin or to White House Strategic Adviser Bannon. It could be family dinner table conversation, Cabinet table talk or morning briefing discussion.

(Bannon has since canceled his Florida registration.)

The issue has taken on some mirth.

Joe Lockhart, who was President Clinton's press secretary, joked to Facebook friends that he registered in New York without first canceling his voter registration in Washington, D.C.

"Where do I turn myself in?" asked Lockhart.

There can be penalties for leaving an active registration at your old address.

The offspring of a prominent Seattle writer went off to college in California but remained on the voting rolls in Seattle. Local Democrats saw she had not voted. In the last weekend before Election Day, they bombarded the folks back home with no fewer than five visits to the home and phone calls.
(c) Copyright 2017 Seattle Post-Intelligencer (http://seattlep-i.com). All rights reserved. Reproduced with permission of the Seattle Post-Intelligencer.
