
Cascade Mall killing suspect injected into secretary of state race
Newspaper September 30, 2016 | Seattle Post-Intelligencer (WA)
Section: Local News 776 Words
Cascade Mall killing suspect injected into secretary of state race
The man accused of killing five people in Burlington last Friday has become a center of contention in the race for Washington's secretary of state, an official whose principal responsibility is administering elections.

Under a proposal unveiled Friday by current Secretary of State Kim Wyman, applicants for driver's licenses in Washington would be required to present citizenship verification, which election officials could then use to check on voters' citizenship.

Wyman, a Republican in a tough re-election race, called the proposal "reasonable" and claimed bipartisan backing from county auditors.

But Wyman brought up the example of Arcan Cetin, who has been charged with murdering five people at Cascade Mall. He registered to vote in 2014 and voted in three elections, affirming that he was a U.S. citizen.

"This issue pales in comparison to the tragedy of five innocent lives lost," said Wyman. "But when the citizenship of Mr. Cetin was publicly called into question as part of the story, it shined a bright light on the fact that under current state law, as election administrators, we are not able to confirm the citizenship of any registered voter."

She drew an immediate, stinging rebuke from ex-Seattle City Councilwoman Tina Podlodowski, Wyman's election opponent and the strongest contender Democrats have fielded for the office in years.

"I'm disgusted by what my opponent did today at her press conference in Spokane. She's using the tragic Burlington mall shooting to tar Washington's immigrant community with the 'voter fraud' brush and score political points," Podlodowski wrote on her Facebook page.

As well, added Podlodowski, Wyman is grandstanding due to ongoing work to put Washington in conformance with the federal REAL ID law, which deals with security and authentication for those seeking state driver's licenses.

"Bipartisan work on REAL ID has been underway in the Legislature for several years -- led by House Speaker Frank Chopp, Democratic Rep. Judy Clibborn and Republican Sen. Curtis King -- with legislation already scheduled to be introduced in the 2017 session," Podlodowski added.

Wyman has been "sitting on the sidelines," her challenger argued, and is only now "showing her true partisan Republican colors to score political points."

The Wyman proposal does include a step long sought by those wanting to boost voter registration in Washington. An estimated 1.5 million residents of the Evergreen State are eligible but not registered.

The incumbent's proposed package of legislation includes a plan for automatic registration to vote for those who provide documentation that they are citizens, with an opt-out provision.

"Many have urged us to enact automatic voter registration -- like we have seen in Oregon, California and a few other states. Without a citizenship check, I'm unwilling to support that concept," said Wyman.

Still, Wyman drew sharp criticism from civil liberties and immigrant rights advocates.

"There is no credible evidence of non-citizens voting in Washington. Such actions are already a felony and could lead to an individual being deported," said Shankar Narayan, technology director at the American Civil Liberties Union of Washington.

"Rather than adding layers of bureaucracy that will deter legitimate voters or falsely stigmatizing immigrants, our public officials should be making the ballot more, rather than less, accessible."

Rick Stolz, CEO of OneAmerica Votes, which is registering immigrants who are citizens, decried Wyman for a "Trump-like exploitation of the Burlington tragedy."

"With the Burlington investigation still underway, and even after news reports had confirmed that Arcan Cetin was in fact a citizen, Secretary Wyman this morning announced policy proposals taken out of the right-wing voter suppression playbook," said Stolz.

The penalties for a non-citizen voting are up to five years in prison and a $10,000 fine, as well as likely deportation.

Washington has experienced ongoing voter participation problems, particularly in at-large voting systems that have diluted the Latino vote in Eastern Washington counties. It took a federal lawsuit, furiously resisted by city fathers, to move Yakima to a district-based system for electing its city council.

The REAL ID issue, and the proposed Washington Voting Rights Act -- which provides for mediation in civil rights disputes -- are likely to be high on the Legislature's 2017 agenda.

Wyman hopes to be back to see her "citizenship check" enacted, and said Friday: "The people of Washington and their election administrators across the state want to assure that only citizens who meet the requirements to vote are registered and voting."

Podlodowski is putting emphasis on the secretary of state connecting with the unregistered 1.5 million -- a group that includes lots of low-income and immigrant citizens -- and moving them into the electorate.
(c) Copyright 2016 Seattle Post-Intelligencer (http://seattlep-i.com). All rights reserved. Reproduced with permission of the Seattle Post-Intelligencer.
