
FBI says it still won't recommend prosecuting Hillary Clinton over emails
Newspaper November 6, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The: Web Edition Articles (Newark, NJ)
Author: Jonathan D. Salant Section: Politics 1111 Words
TRENTON — After reviewing a trove of newly discovered emails, the Federal Bureau of Investigation said Sunday that it won't revisit its conclusion that Hillary Clinton should not be prosecuted for her use of a private server.

"Based on our review, we have not changed our conclusions that we expressed in July," FBI Director James Comey said in a letter to eight congressional committee chairs and the ranking Democrats on each panel.

He praised the bureau for "doing an extraordinary amount of high-quality work in such a short period of time."

Is FBI hiding something about Trump?

The Clinton campaign welcomed the decision.

"We were always confident nothing would cause the July decision to be revisited," spokesman Brian Fallon said on Twitter.

Comey concluded in July that "no reasonable prosecutor" would bring charges against Clinton.

"We cannot find a case that would support bringing criminal charges on these facts," Comey said in a statement.

We were always confident nothing would cause the July decision to be revisited. Now Director Comey has confirmed ithttps://t.co/BMQQx9eRzw

— Brian Fallon (@brianefallon) November 6, 2016

But after discovering additional emails on a laptop used by a top Clinton aide, Huma Abedin, Comey told Congress last month that the agency would review the new information.

The emails had been found on a laptop used by Abedin's estranged husband, former Rep. Anthony Weiner (D-N.Y.), to allegedly send sexually explicit text messages to an underaged girl, the New York Times reported.

Most of the emails were duplicates already reviewed by the FBI, NBC News reported.

Republicans refused to back down.

"The FBI's findings from its criminal investigation of Hillary Clinton's secret email server were a damning and unprecedented indictment of her judgment," Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said.

And Donald Trump's campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, told MSNBC: "The reason that so many Americans have a problem with Hillary Clinton's honesty and trustworthiness and veracity does not change."

Comey was criticized by both Democrats and Republicans for violating long-standing Justice Department policy and talking about a possible investigation so close to the election.

"What Mr. Comey did, you know, just nine days ago was a mistake," Clinton campaign chair John Podesta said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press. ".I think it broke with precedent."

FBI Dir just informed us "Based on our review, we have not changed our conclusions that we expressed in July with respect to Sec Clinton"

— Jason Chaffetz (@jasoninthehouse) November 6, 2016

The original announcement came at a time when Trump began a surge in opinion polls. Clinton has a slight lead in surveys with Election Day less than 48 hours away.

Trump used Comey's October surprise to falsely claim that the FBI had "reopened its criminal investigation" and that it is likely the agency "will be able to collect more than enough evidence to garner indictments against Hillary Clinton and her inner circle," as he said at Nevada rally ion Saturday.

Questions about Clinton's handling of classified information on a private email server while U.S. secretary of state helped contribute to her low ratings in opinion polls when respondents were asked to rate the candidates on honesty and trustworthiness.

Even so, the email controversy was viewed as less important than Trump's comments about women or his temperament to serve as commander-in-chief, according to an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll of likely voters released Sunday.

Jonathan D. Salant may be reached at jsalant@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @JDSalant. Find NJ.com Politics on Facebook
Copyright 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
