JUDGE ORDERS RNC, TRUMP TO DISCLOSE POLL WATCHER SITES
Newspaper November 3, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ)
Author: Jonathan D. Salant Section: News 504 Words
Page: 3
Donald Trump, who has asked supporters to monitor polling places in selected locations, may have to tell a judge where they're planning to be and why.

U.S. District Judge John Michael Vazquez on Wednesday ordered the Republican National Committee and its agents, volunteers and outside contractors, to disclose by the end of today which locations they plan to station observers to watch the polls.

That's a day before he will hear arguments in Newark on whether the RNC violated a consent decree signed following the 1981 New Jersey gubernatorial election.

At the time, the Republicans agreed not to undertake "ballot security activities" in areas with large minority populations "where a purpose or significant effect of such activities is to deter qualified voters from voting."

The Democratic National Committee has charged Trump and the Republican Party with violating that agreement and have asked, among other things, to extend the consent decree for eight years past its 2017 scheduled expiration date.

Among the information sought by Vazquez is where any efforts will be concentrated, why those sites were selected, and what materials or instructions are going to poll watchers.

One issue to be decided is whether Trump's campaign, which is raising money jointly with the RNC, should be subject to the same limits on activities at polling places.

Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, the Republican vice presidential nominee, told supporters in Denver in August that "the Trump campaign and the Republican National Committee are working very, very closely" with states to "ensure ballot integrity."

Vazquez earlier sought details of agreements between the two camps concerning "voter fraud, ballot security, ballot integrity, poll watching, or poll monitoring."

Trump has claimed that the election could be rigged and has asked for volunteers to monitor particular locations with large numbers of minority voters, such as Philadelphia. He has refused to say that he will accept the election results if he does not win.

The Pulitzer Prize-winning Politifact website said Trump's assertions about a rigged election were so false as to warrant a "pants on fire" rating.

In a recent Gallup poll, 66 percent of U.S. adults said they were confident that the votes would be accurately counted, including 83 percent of Democrats and 56 percent of Republicans.

Trump also has championed voter identification laws designed to prevent cases of in-person fraud that have been shown to be virtually nonexistent. In throwing out such laws enacted by Republican-controlled legislatures, federal courts said they were designed to make it harder for minorities to vote.

Republicans in North Carolina, a state crucial to Trump's chances of winning Tuesday's election over Hillary Clinton, would not have enacted a voter ID law "if it had no disproportionate impact on African-American voters," a U.S. appeals court said.

"The state has failed to identify even a single individual who has ever been charged with committing in-person voter fraud in North Carolina," the court said.

Trump insisted at an August rally in Wilmington, N.C., that the law would stop Democrats from "coming up and voting 15 times for Hillary."

Jonathan D. Salant, NJ Advance Media, jsalant@njadvancemedia.com
Copyright (c) 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
