Cory Booker calls Donald Trump a liar (VIDEO)
Newspaper January 27, 2017 | Star-Ledger, The: Web Edition Articles (Newark, NJ)
Author: Brent Johnson Section: Politics 1389 Words
Cory Booker calls Donald Trump a liar (VIDEO)
TRENTON -- Cory Booker, the Democratic U.S. senator from New Jersey, has accused President Donald Trump and his administration of "repeatedly lying" and spreading "propaganda" to Americans during their first week in power.

Booker, who has been highly critical of the Republican president, made the comments during an interview Thursday night on CNN.

"A week in office, and we have seen the president of the United States and his officials repeatedly lying to the American public and pushing out what could be called -- what we've seen in other regimes throughout history -- what can be called propaganda to mislead the public," Booker told "OutFront" host Erin Burnett.

Will Trump era make Cory Booker a Democratic star?

"He needs to be called out on it, and we, as an American public, should not accept a president that routinely lies, blatantly, to the American people," the senator added.

Burnett also asked Booker if he agreed with U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), who recently called Trump a "delusional president."

"I don't know his mental state," Booker said. "What I do know is he a liar --repeatedly so."

.@CoryBooker: President Trump is spreading "lies and propaganda" https://t.co/E08soXjHaZ

-- OutFrontCNN (@OutFrontCNN) January 27, 2017

Trump and White House press secretary Sean Spicer was heavily criticized this week for falsely claiming that last Saturday's inauguration drew the largest audience to witness any presidential inauguration in history and for repeating the unsubstantiated claim that millions of people voted illegally in November's election.

Booker -- a rumored presidential candidate in 2020 -- called the latter "stunning and deeply offensive given the challenges we've had with voting in our country's history."

Sen. @CoreyBooker: President Trump's promised investigation into voter fraud is "stunning and deeply offensive" https://t.co/UkQw2tLBir

-- OutFrontCNN (@OutFrontCNN) January 27, 2017

In addition, Booker slammed Trump for an executive order he is expected to sign temporarily banning refugees from entering the U.S., calling it "a violation of something we've been able to do for generations."

"This is just a wrong assault on people who are the most vulnerable, who are the most persecuted on the planet Earth," he said. "This is just so wrong-headed and such a betrayal of the truth of who we are and who we claim to be in the world. We should be a beacon of light and hope, but we're allowing other countries who have the same concerns for terrorism to out-America us because they're stepping up to the plate during a time of crisis and welcoming persecuted people."

Brent Johnson may be reached at bjohnson@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @johnsb01. Find NJ.com Politics on Facebook.
Copyright 2017 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
