
NEWARK JUDGE TO HEAR ARGUMENTS TODAY ON VOTER-MONITORING CHALLENGE
Newspaper November 4, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ)
Section: News 375 Words
Page: 2
A federal judge is expected to hear arguments today in Newark in a legal challenge filed by the Democratic National Committee accusing the Republican National Committee and Donald Trump's presidential campaign of violating 35-year-old court-imposed limits on voter monitoring.

Lawyers for the DNC last week filed an emergency motion in U.S. District Court in Newark asking that the RNC be held in contempt of a 1981 consent decree in New Jersey under which the Republicans had agreed to not undertake ballot-security activities that would "deter qualified voters from voting" in areas with large minority populations.

The motion cites repeated public claims made by Trump that the upcoming election may be "rigged" through voter fraud in key states, and that Trump's campaign will be working directly with the RNC to conduct ballot-security operations on Election Day.

The 1981 consent decree resulted from what was alleged to be widespread Republican interference with voting and polling in that year's gubernatorial race, including the presence of off-duty law enforcement officers at polling places and repeated official challenges to minority voters.

The new motion argues there is ample evidence the campaign has enjoyed the "tacit support" of the RNC with regard to ballot-security measures.

Specifically, it cites a conversation in which Trump's campaign manager allegedly told a reporter the campaign would be "actively working with the national committee, the official party, and campaign lawyers to monitor precincts around the country."

In a response filed Monday, lawyers for the RNC argued that the DNC failed to provide any "convincing evidence" the party was acting in concert with the Trump campaign.

The RNC's attorneys pointed to an Aug. 13 conversation in which the organization's chief counsel is said to have expressly told the Trump campaign the RNC wouldn't participate in its ballot-security efforts.

In a ruling Monday, U.S. District Judge John Michael Vazquez ordered the RNC to produce any written agreements between the parties related to "voter fraud, ballot security, ballot integrity, poll watching, or poll monitoring."

On Wednesday, Vazquez further ordered that the RNC produce by the end of Thursday affidavits detailing any poll-watching activities "by any agent, employee or servant" of the RNC during the 2016 presidential election.

The judge specified those categories also include volunteers and independent contractors.

Thomas Moriarty , NJ Advance Media, tmoriarty@njadvancemedia.com
Copyright (c) 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
