
7 takeaways from Trump-Clinton polls, where they stand before the final debate
Newspaper October 16, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The: Web Edition Articles (Newark, NJ)
Author: Jonathan D. Salant Section: Politics 1273 Words
WASHINGTON — Two surveys of likely voters released Sunday put Hillary Clinton ahead of Donald Trump in advance of their final presidential debate this week.

An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll gave Clinton a 10-point lead over Trump, 51 percent to 41 percent, while an ABC News/Washington Post survey had a much narrower advantage for the former U.S. secretary of state, 50 percent to 46 percent.

The third debate is scheduled for Wednesday in Las Vegas.

Clinton camp: Trump is undermining election

These polls followed a Fox News poll released Thursday that gave Clinton an 8-point lead and an earlier NBC/Journal survey putting her ahead by 14 points.

The findings indicate that the Clinton campaign hasn't lost the momentum it garnered from the first presidential debate. Since then, Trump apologized for a video showing him making crude and vulgar remarks about women, and tried to defend himself from a series of accusations that he sexually assaulted other women.

Clinton led by 5.5 percentage points in the Real Clear Politics poll average and was given an 86 percent chance of winning the election by Nate Silver's FiveThirtyEight.

"Donald Trump's chances of winning this election have faded," Democratic pollster Fred Yang of Hart Research Associates, which helped conduct the poll, told NBC News. "This poll is showing the writing on the wall."

Here are seven takeaways from the two polls:

1. The enthusiasm gap dissipated.

Even respondents in earlier polls said Clinton was more qualified and had a better temperament than Trump to be president, the race was close because Republican voters were more enthusiastic about their nominee than Democratic voters.

No longer. In the ABC/Post poll, 83 percent of likely Clinton voters said they were enthusiastic, compared with 79 percent of likely Trump backers.

The gap between the two candidates on honesty narrowed as well. In the NBC News/Journal poll, 38 percent of registered voters said Trump was honest and trustworthy and 34 percent said Clinton was. In the ABC News/Post poll, 34 percent said yes to that question for both candidates.

In a September Quinnipiac University survey, voters said Clinton was not honest enough to be president by 55 percent to 43 percent. Trump was deemed honest enough by 50 percent and not honest enough by 48 percent.

2. No, Trump doesn't have a better temperament.

"I think my strongest asset, maybe by far, is my temperament," Trump said during the first presidential debate.

Just 23 percent of registered voters in the NBC/Journal poll said Trump had the right temperament to be president, while 59 percent said the same of Clinton.

In addition, 64 percent of registered voters said they were concerned that Trump did not have the right temperament to serve as commander-in-chief.

3. Voters are still concerned about Trump's earlier calls for deporting immigrants and banning Muslims.

4. Clinton's private email server still worries voters.

5. Trump's sexual behavior is a major concern, not Bill Clinton's.

Before the second presidential debate, Trump brought out three women who accused former President Bill Clinton of mistreating them, and a fourth who criticized Hillary Clinton's judge-ordered service as a defense attorney for a suspected rapist.

6. Trump holds an edge on the economy, Clinton on everything else.

7. Clinton benefited among those for whom the debates mattered.

Thirty-one percent of likely voters in the NBC News/Journal poll said the two previous debates made them more likely to back Clinton, more than twice as much as the 14 percent who said they now were more likely to support Trump.

Even so, 52 percent said the debates made no difference in their candidate preference.

As for Trump's call in the second debate to jail Clinton and appoint a special prosecutor to investigate her, 57 percent of registered voters in the ABC/Post poll said it was inappropriate and just 40 percent supported it.

Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey, a Republican, said "no reasonable prosecutor" would bring charges against Clinton for her use of a private email server.

Both polls were conducted Oct. 10-13. The margins of error were 3.1 percentage points for NBC/Journal survey of 1,000 registered voters and 3.3 percentage points for subset of 905 likely voters. For the ABC/Post poll, the margins of error were 3.5 percent for 920 registered voters and 4 percentage points for the subset of 740 likely voters.

Jonathan D. Salant may be reached at jsalant@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @JDSalant. Find NJ.com Politics on Facebook
Copyright 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
