Federal judge turns down Democrats in Trump voter intimidation case
Newspaper November 5, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The: Web Edition Articles (Newark, NJ)
Author: Thomas Moriarty Section: News 1410 Words
NEWARK — A federal judge on Saturday denied motions by the Democratic National Committee that sought to hold the Republican National Committee and the Trump campaign in violation of 35-year-old court protections against voter intimidation.

Judge John Michael Vazquez's ruling came the day after he heard two-and-a-half hours of oral arguments in Newark over an emergency motion filed last week by the DNC, which sought to hold the Republican National Committee in contempt of a 1982 consent decree.

The decree, imposed in the wake of the 1981 New Jersey gubernatorial election, bars the RNC from engaging ballot-security activities that could discourage qualified voters in areas with large minority populations.

Lawyers for the DNC argued Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump and his campaign were acting both as agents of and in concert with the RNC when they discussed ballot-security activities proposed to combat voter fraud.

Trump has claimed the election may be "rigged" through voter fraud in key states.

The DNC had asked the court to grant injunctive relief, imposing sanctions and extending the decree — set to expire in 2017 — another eight years.

As evidence, the DNC pointed to comments made by Trump's campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, to an MSNBC reporter that the campaign was working directly with the RNC to combat voter fraud.

Conway later retracted her statement.

The attorneys also cited statements by Trump's running mate, Mike Pence, that the campaign was working with the RNC to ensure "ballot integrity."

Bobby Burchfield, an attorney for the RNC, on Friday described Pence and Conway as simply mistaken. Josh Kaul, one of several attorneys representing the DNC, said it was "remarkable" the same mistake kept being made over and over.

In a written opinion filed Saturday, Vazquez said that the documents provided to the court by the RNC showed no indication it was working in concert with the Trump campaign on activities that might constitute voter intimidation.

"First, no agreements between the two exist as to voter fraud efforts," Vazquez wrote, acknowledging only limited discovery was possible given the timeframe of recent proceedings.

"In addition, the RNC's Chief Counsel, Mr. Phillippe, personally confirmed with Governor Pence and Ms. Conway that neither were aware of any activities with the RNC pertaining to ballot integrity."

Vazquez said he would hear arguments from both parties after the election to determine if further discovery was necessary, noting the DNC had made "a colorable showing of a possible breach."

Christie administration has 'strong confidence' in ballot security

In the courtroom and in filings, the RNC's lawyers made clear their clients had been all-too aware of the consequences of a violation.

Among numerous documents they filed with the court was a detailed memorandum circulated by the RNC's chief counsel among staff and volunteers, detailing the activities prohibited under the consent decree and warning staffers against tempting fate.

"With one federal election left before its expected sunset, you do not want to be the person responsible for extending the consent decree into its fifth decade," the memorandum warned.

Among the lawyers the DNC in the case was Angelo Genova, of Genova Burns, who argued the case that led to the original 1982 decree.

In a statement Saturday, Genova said he was disappointed in the court's decision not to grant immediate relief, but "find(s) comfort in knowing that meaningful discovery may be pursued afterward to establish that this 30-plus year consent order should remain viable in the fight against RNC-inspired voter suppression efforts."

Thomas Moriarty may be reached at tmoriarty@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter at @ThomasDMoriarty. Find NJ.com on Facebook.
Copyright 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
