STATEHOUSE DEMOCRATS SET TO CHALLENGE VETO ON VOTER REGISTRATION
Newspaper September 14, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ)
Author: Susan K. Livio Section: News 361 Words
Page: 3
The state Assembly plans to challenge Gov. Chris Christie's recent veto of a bill that would automatically register people to vote when they obtain or renew their driver's license - a measure the governor claims would invite fraud.

And although none of Christie's vetoes has been overridden by the Democratically controlled Legislature because there are not have veto-proof majorities in either house, the Assembly may have enough votes this time.

The Legislature came close last October when three Senate Republicans voted with the 24 Democrats to challenge a bill that would have included police in the judicial process of deciding whether a person with a documented mental illness could get a gun permit. But the override failed in the Assembly.

This time might be different.

There were 54 "yes" votes - the veto-proof majority necessary in the 80-seat chamber -when the Assembly passed the voter registration measure.

"We had 54 votes last time, and the governor's veto offers no valid reason for anyone to change their votes," said Assemblyman Craig Coughlin (D-Middlesex), a prime sponsor of the bill.

"This bill should have become law. It's that simple," Coughlin added. "This is a reasonable bill modeled after successful programs in other states that would increase voter registration in a safe and secure manner. That can only be a good and healthy thing for our democracy."

The 40-member Senate would have to muster 27 votes to make the override stick.

Christie, who last month called the legislation costly, unnecessary and an invitation to fraud, rejected the bill (A1944) that would have automatically registered New Jerseyans to vote when they applied for a permit, license, identification card or renewed a license, unless the resident specifically chose not to.

In vetoing the measure, the Republican governor wrote that New Jersey residents may already register to vote at the motor vehicle office, online, from county and municipal offices, social service agencies and libraries.

"The bill not only will almost certainly register ineligible voters, but also contains language that would effectively absolve from punishment individuals who unlawfully vote," according to Christie's veto message. "This bill should be called ‘The Voter Fraud Enhancement and Permission Act.' "

A spokesman for Christie declined to comment.

Susan K. Livio, NJ Advance Media, slivio@njadvancemedia.com
Copyright (c) 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
