
How Clinton campaign reacted to Trump's charges of a rigged election
Newspaper October 15, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The: Web Edition Articles (Newark, NJ)
Author: Jonathan D. Salant Section: Politics 1106 Words
WASHINGTON — Hillary Clinton's campaign manager on Saturday accused Donald Trump of trying to "undermine" the contest Nov. 8 by insisting that the election would be rigged.

"This election will have record turnout, because voters see through Donald Trump's shameful attempts to undermine an election weeks before it happens," Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook said.

Mook's comments came in response to Trump's recent arguments that reports of him harassing women were false and an attempt to rig the election in favor of Clinton.

Trump says election is rigged against him

"Campaigns should be hard-fought and elections hard-won, but what is fundamental about the American electoral system is that it is free, fair and open to the people," Mook said. "Participation in the system — and particularly voting — should be encouraged, not dismissed or undermined because a candidate is afraid he's going to lose."

The charges about a rigged election have gotten louder recently following Trump's performance in the first two presidential debates, the release of a video showing him speaking in crude and vulgar terms about women, and reports that he sexually harassed other women. Nate Silver's FiveThirtyEight gave Clinton an 86 percent chance of winning the election.

"Instead of being held accountable, Hillary is running for president in what looks like a rigged election," Trump said Saturday at a rally in Portsmouth, N.H. "The election is being rigged by corrupt media, pushing completely false allegations and outright lies, in an effort to elect her president."

Trump has warned for months that the election would be rigged, embracing Republican-enacted voter identification laws that federal courts have said discriminate against minority voters and that are designed to address the in-person fraud that studies have shown is virtually non-existent.

In August, he started recruiting supporters as election observers to "help me stop Crooked Hillary from rigging this election."

The Republican National Committee and "its agents," which could include Trump since he is raising money jointly with the party, are under court-imposed restrictions on electoral activities aimed at minority voters in response to GOP voter-intimidation efforts during the 1981 New Jersey gubernatorial election.

He continued his theme in a series of tweets.

Nothing ever happened with any of these women. Totally made up nonsense to steal the election. Nobody has more respect for women than me!

— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 15, 2016

Hillary Clinton should have been prosecuted and should be in jail. Instead she is running for president in what looks like a rigged election

— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 15, 2016

This election is being rigged by the media pushing false and unsubstantiated charges, and outright lies, in order to elect Crooked Hillary!

— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 15, 2016

100% fabricated and made-up charges, pushed strongly by the media and the Clinton Campaign, may poison the minds of the American Voter. FIX!

— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 15, 2016

Trump has called for Clinton to be jailed for mishandling emails while U.S. secretary of state, and promised to name a special prosecutor to launch another investigation.

The Republican director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, James Comey, acknowledged "evidence of potential violations of the statutes regarding the handling of classified information" but said "no reasonable prosecutor" would file criminal charges against Clinton.

Jonathan D. Salant may be reached at jsalant@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @JDSalant. Find NJ.com Politics on Facebook
Copyright 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
