N.J.'s Booker targets voter-ID laws Trump champions
Newspaper October 2, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The: Web Edition Articles (Newark, NJ)
Author: Jonathan D. Salant Section: Politics 1189 Words
WASHINGTON — While Donald Trump warned of a "rigged" election without voter identification laws, U.S. Sen. Cory Booker said calling fraud at the ballot box a serious problem was "a patent lie."

Booker, the first black to represent New Jersey in the U.S. Senate, said voter-ID laws championed by Trump really are designed to hold down voting by minorities since there are virtually no cases of in-person fraud.

"The problem is he is sort of igniting people to be concerned about a problem that doesn't exist and he's trying to support a lot of these efforts that are going on that are trying to restrict access to voting," Booker (D-N.J.) said in an interview.

A bit of nasty N.J. voting history

The U.S. Supreme Court in 2013 threw out the Voting Rights Act requirement that states and localities with a history of racial discrimination obtain federal approval before changing their voting laws.

Since then, Republican-led state governments have sought to require specific forms of identification before voters can cast ballots. Recent federal court decisions have overturned such legislation as targeting minority voters rather than addressing a problem shown to be infinitesimal.

A study by Justin Levitt, a professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, found just 31 possible fraud cases out of more than 1 billion votes from 2000 through 2014.

"Actions are being taken that are consciously being done to suppress the voting of poor folks, of minorities, and others," Booker said. "People just don't get up in the morning and suddenly think to themselves, 'I'm going to commit voter fraud.' It is a rare, rare occurrence. You have a better chance of being struck by lightning."

Still, many voters believe fraud is a problem, and they're backing Trump. In a recent ABC News/Washington Post poll, 46 percent said voter fraud occurred often, compared with 50 percent who said it was a rare occurrence.

The believers in voter fraud backed Trump by 61 percent to 22 percent. Those who said it was rare supported Clinton, 67 percent to 21 percent.

Trump has fed into the beliefs of his supporters, arguing that voter-ID laws will prevent the Democrats from stealing the election.

"We'd better be careful, because that election is going to be rigged," he said in Columbus, Ohio, in August. "People are going to walk in and they're going to vote 10 times, maybe, who knows?"

Trump defended North Carolina's voter-ID law that a federal appeals court rejected because it "disproportionately affected African Americans" and officials could not "identify even a single individual who has ever been charged with committing in-person voter fraud."

Without such a law, people would be "coming up and voting 15 times for Hillary," Trump said at a August rally in Wilmington, N.C. "You won't vote 15 times. But people will. They'll vote many times."

The Pulitzer Prize-winning Politifact website said Trump's assertions about a rigged election were so false as to warrant a "pants on fire" rating.

Still, more than one-third of Trump supporters, 35 percent, said in a Fox News poll released Sept. 30 that they would not believe that Clinton won fair and square. Just 55 percent said they would consider her the legitimate president.

For Clinton supporters, 74 percent said they would consider a Trump victory legitimate and 19 percent said they wouldn't.

In a tight race between Trump and Hillary Clinton, turnout by minority voters could be crucial to her chances.

A recent McClatchy/Marist poll reported that likely black voters backed Clinton over Trump, 93 percent to 3 percent, and Hispanics supported the Democratic nominee, 74 percent to 16 percent.

"The election can be stolen on Election Day at polling places," Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.), said at a recent congressional Democratic forum that Booker also spoke at. "We have to be mindful and watchful. This is our time to speak out and speak up."

During the first presidential debate on Monday, Clinton said Trump spread "a racist lie" as he tried to delegitimize the first black U.S. president by questioning Barack Obama's birthplace. Trump since has agreed that Obama was born in Hawaii.

Trump is recruiting supporters as election observers to "help me stop Crooked Hillary from rigging this election.'

Those efforts could run afoul of court-imposed restrictions on electoral activities by the Republican National Committee and "its agents" aimed at minority voters, imposed in response to GOP voter-intimidation efforts during the 1981 New Jersey gubernatorial election.

Trump praised the lae Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, who called the Voting Rights Act "a perpetuation of racial entitlement," and promised in his convention acceptance speech to nominate a successor with "similar views and principles."

His support of voter-ID laws could negate his efforts to reach out to minorities, said voting rights expert Lorraine Minnite, a professor of public policy at Rutgers-Camden.

"African Americans, more than any other group, understand both the importance of voting in a democracy and they have the experience of hundreds of years of being denied their human rights," Minnite said. "The voting issue is very, very important to African Americans."

Jonathan D. Salant may be reached at jsalant@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @JDSalant. Find NJ.com Politics on Facebook.
Copyright 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
