Where the Trump-Clinton race stands two days before Nov. 8
Newspaper November 6, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The: Web Edition Articles (Newark, NJ)
Author: Jonathan D. Salant Section: Politics 1066 Words
TRENTON — Hillary Clinton held a narrow lead over Donald Trump in three head-to-head polls of likely voters as the 2016 presidential campaign neared an end.

Clinton, who has seen a once-strong lead erode, was ahead of Trump, 48 percent to 43 percent in an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released Sunday. Two other polls showed virtual ties between the two nominees: a Fox News survey had her beating Trump, 46 percent to 45 percent, and a McClatchy/Marist College gave her a two-point advantage, 46 percent to 44 percent.

"We're seeing a dead heat," Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said Sunday on CBS' "Face the Nation." "We're seeing that all over the country. There are a lot of surprises here in the end."

Booker seeks to get black voters to polls

Despite the closeness of the race, Clinton had a smoother path than Trump to the 270 electoral votes needed to become president. Even if she lost Colorado, Florida, Iowa and Ohio, she would become the first woman U.S. chief executive if she held every other state that has gone Democratic in the last two national elections.

Nate Silver's FiveThirtyEight gave Clinton a 64 percent chance of winning the presidency. The New York Times Upshot gave her an 84 percent chance. While the Real Clear Politics poll average gave Clinton a lead of just 1.8 percentage points, she has led in 16 of the last 20 national surveys.

"Although Clinton and Trump are separated by the slimmest of margins, the Electoral College can present a very different picture," said Lee Miringoff, director of the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion. "Close popular votes can, but do not necessarily, translate into tight battles for 270 electoral votes."

To hold the line, Clinton is visiting Michigan, North Carolina and Pennsylvania in the closing days of campaign. Virginia Sen. Tim Kaine, the Democratic vice-presidential nominee, campaigned in his home state, and former Vice President Al Gore was visiting Colorado.

"Every state we make harder for Donald Trump to win makes his path narrower and narrower," Clinton chief strategist Joel Benenson said on "Fox News Sunday."

Clinton has built her lead on the support from minority voters. Trump has called for deporting all 11 million unauthorized immigrants, described Mexicans as "rapists," and pledged to nominate Supreme Court justices "in the mold" of the late Antonin Scalia, who called the Voting Rights Act a "racial entitlement."

She led Trump among blacks, 86 percent to 7 percent, and Hispanics, 65 percent to 20 percent, in the NBC/Journal poll. Trump led among white voters, 53 percent to 38 percent.

Her 53 percent-to-38 percent advantage among women more than offset Trump's lead among men, 47 percent to 42 percent.

The NBC/Journal poll of 1,282 likely voters was conducted Nov. 3-5 and had a margin of error of 2.7 percentage points.The Fox News survey of 1,107 likely voters was conducted Nov. 1-3 and had a margin of error of 3 percentage points. The McClatchy/Marist poll of 940 likely voters also was conducted Nov. 1-3 and had a margin of error of 3.2 percentage points.

Jonathan D. Salant may be reached at jsalant@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @JDSalant. Find NJ.com Politics on Facebook
Copyright 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
