TRUMP WILL ACCEPT RESULTS - IF HE WINS
Newspaper October 21, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ)
Author: Jonathan D. Salant Section: News 558 Words
Page: 3
Donald Trump told a post-debate rally in Ohio on Thursday that he would accept the results of the presidential election "if I win."

Trump made his comments a day after he shocked both friends and foes by refusing to commit to accepting the Nov. 8 election results during the third and final presidential debate.

"I would like to promise and pledge to all of my voters and supporters, and to all of the people of the United States, that I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election - if I win," he said.

Virginia Sen. Tim Kaine, the Democratic vice presidential nominee, hit back at Trump's remarks.

"You've got to accept the results of this election, win or lose," Kaine said in North Carolina.

During the debate, Trump refused to make a commitment when asked if he would abide by the will of the voters.

"I will look at it at the time," he said Wednesday in Las Vegas. "I will keep you in suspense."

Trump has embraced voter identification laws that federal courts have said prevent minorities from voting but Republicans have defended as necessary to prevent in-person voter fraud, which has been shown to be virtually non-existent.

He has asked volunteers to monitor polls in certain cities with large minority populations, a step that could run afoul of court-imposed restrictions on electoral activities by the Republican National Committee and "its agents" aimed at minority voters, imposed in response to GOP voter-intimidation efforts during the 1981 New Jersey gubernatorial election.

Trump on Thursday insisted the debate question was "unprecedented." He said during the debate that "millions of people are registered to vote that shouldn't be registered to vote."

Those findings were contained in a 4-year-old study by the Pew Center on the States' Election Initiatives that found problems with 24 million voter registrations, including having dead voters still on the rolls, people registered in more than one state or incorrect addresses.

Since then, many of those problems have been fixed. A multistate database that allows states to track those who have moved or have died now has 20 states and the District of Columbia participating, up from seven states in 2012.

"There is absolutely no connection between voter records being out of date and fraud," said David Becker, who authored the Pew report and is now executive director and co-founder of the Center for Election Innovation and Research in Washington. "The out-of-date records aren't because somebody is trying to commit fraud. They're because somebody moved."

Even if a dead person remains on the rolls, it's unlikely someone will cast a vote in his or her name, Becker said.

"All the evidence seems to indicate that the American people take voting very seriously," Becker said. "They're not inclined to commit a felony of impersonating a dead voter for the big payoff of casting one ballot in a presidential election where 140 million ballots are being cast."

Trump also suggested Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton was "truly capable" of trying to steal the election.

"Of course I would accept a clear election result, but I would also reserve my right to contest or file a legal challenge in the case of a questionable result," Trump said. "I will follow and abide by all of the rules and traditions of all the many candidates who have come before me. But none of this will matter, since we are going to win big on Nov. 8."
Copyright (c) 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
