
Dartmouth study says voter fraud not rampant
Newspaper December 5, 2016 | New Hampshire Union Leader/New Hampshire Sunday News: Web Edition Articles (Manchester, NH)
Section: Voters First 290 Words
HANOVER — A Dartmouth College study on voter fraud says allegations made by the Donald Trump presidential campaign claiming voter fraud is widespread are unfounded.

The authors of the study announced Friday that in a study evaluating Trump's allegations of voter fraud they found no evidence of widespread voter fraud in the 2016 presidential election.

"Many Americans appear to believe that voter fraud is common and yet academic and journalistic research implies that it is very, very rare," said co-author Michael C. Herron, professor of government at Dartmouth and visiting scholar at the Hertie School of Governance.

"Many of these allegations of voter fraud were based on concerns that massive numbers of non-citizens would cast ballots in the election; however, my co-authors and I found no evidence that there was rampant voter fraud in the 2016 presidential election."

The study also didn't find abnormalities in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin — states currently the focus of ongoing recount efforts — nor in any of the states Trump personally claimed voter fraud was running wild — California, New Hampshire and Virginia.

"Our results do not imply that there was no fraud at all in the 2016 presidential contest, nor do they imply that this contest was error-free. They do strongly suggest, however, that the voter fraud concerns fomented and espoused by the Trump campaign are not grounded in any observable features of the 2016 presidential election," according to Herron.

Herron authored the study with David Cottrell, post-doctoral fellow in the program in quantitative social science at Dartmouth College, and Sean J. Westwood, assistant professor of government at Dartmouth.

The authors focused their study on non-citizen populations, deceased individuals, the timing of results and voting technology.

The study findings are available online at http://www.dartmouth.edu/~voterfraud/.
Copyright, 2016, Union Leader Corp.
