
Feds establish hotline to report NH election fraud
Newspaper October 29, 2016 | New Hampshire Union Leader/New Hampshire Sunday News: Web Edition Articles (Manchester, NH)
Section: Voters First 287 Words
CONCORD — An Election Day hotline on Nov. 8 will allow people to easily report any problems or voter fraud they encounter at the polls.

U.S. Attorney Emily Gray Rice said the hotline is in coordination with the U.S. Justice Department's nationwide Election Day program for the general election. The hotline number is (603) 230-2503.

"The freedom to vote without interference, discrimination, or hindrance is a fundamental civil right enjoyed by U.S. citizens," Rice said. "The Department of Justice will act promptly and aggressively to protect the integrity of the election process and to ensure that every vote is counted and that no vote is stolen by fraud."

Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark S. Zuckerman will serve as district election officer, the person responsible for overseeing election complaints in consultation with U.S. Department of Justice.

Federal law prohibits intimidating or bribing voters, buying and selling votes, altering vote tallies, stuffing ballot boxes and marking ballots for voters against their wishes.

It's also illegal to harass voters. For example, questioning or challenging voters at polling places or photographing or videotaping them under the pretext that these are actions to uncover illegal voting may violate federal election laws.

Federal law protects the right of voters to mark their own ballot or to be assisted by a person of their choice.

In addition to the hotline, the Federal Bureau of Investigation will have agents available to handle reports of election fraud and abuses.

The FBI can be reached at (603) 472-2224.

Complaints can also be made directly to the Civil Rights Division's Voting Section in Washington, D.C. by calling 1-800-253-3931 or (202) 307-2767, by fax at (202) 307-3961, by emailing voting.section@usdoj.gov, or by filing a complaint form that can be found at http://www.justice.gov/crt/complaint/votintake/index.php.
Copyright, 2016, Union Leader Corp.
