
NH voter turnout boosted Trump; final numbers months away
Newspaper December 5, 2016 | New Hampshire Union Leader/New Hampshire Sunday News: Web Edition Articles (Manchester, NH)
Section: Voters First 962 Words
NH voter turnout boosted Trump; final numbers months away
BILL GARDNER

NH voter turnout

Top 14: Here are the top 14 voting precincts that had at least 94 percent support and who they ended up choosing for President.

Millsfield: 105% (Trump)

Randolph: 104% (Clinton)

Hebron: 99.5% (Trump)

Hale's Location: 96.9% (Trump)

Groton: 96.8% (Trump)

Ellsworth: 96.6% (Clinton)

Newfields: 96.5% (Clinton)

Windsor: 96.2% (Trump)

Stark: 95% (Trump)

Hancock: 94.9% (Clinton)

Francestown: 94.8% (Clinton)

Center Harbor: 94.7% (Trump)

Windham: 94.1% (Trump)

Sandwich: 94.1% (Clinton)

Source: Unofficial results, N.H. Secretary of State's Office

CONCORD — Nearly 45 towns or city wards in New Hampshire had very high voter turnout on Nov. 8 according to the latest election returns, and they are spread all over the state.

Among those 44 places where the unofficial turnout exceeded 90 percent, 27 of them voted for Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump; 17 picked Democrat Hillary Clinton.

On Election Day, Clinton captured New Hampshire's four electoral votes by edging Trump by 2,732 votes out of more than 725,000 cast.

But Secretary of State Bill Gardner said it will be several months before the final voter returns will be official.

That's how long it should take for city and town clerks to properly allocate the estimated, 60,000 voters or more who registered to vote on Election Day.

"One thing people don't realize is that these Election Day voters are predominantly not new voters," Gardner said during a telephone interview.

"About 60 percent of them actually have voted before somewhere else and are registering to vote at a different polling place." Gardner said this is why it takes several months after the presidential election to account for them.

"The main way we are able to ferret out these past voters is by their driver license number. When they show up to register to vote, they have to show that ID and we can then search them in local databases by that number," Gardner said.

The election results, therefore, are unofficial since they don't properly account for these new voters.

For example in the Coos County town of Randolph, there were 260 ballots cast, even though the town as of late October had only 258 registered voters. This made for a turnout of 104 percent.

"These turnout numbers will come down somewhat once the final results are in, but the numbers you are looking at today do represent those towns where the turnout was very high," Gardner added.

2nd-highest in nation

Unofficially, New Hampshire should end up with the second-highest turnout in the nation behind Minnesota.

The United States Elections Project at the University of Florida found among the 10 states with the highest turnout, eight of them were considered battlegrounds in the Trump-Clinton contest. Oregon and Maine were the only states with high turnout that weren't ranked among the closest contests.

"We were ranked third in 2008 and 2012, so it looks like we are moving up," Gardner said.

New Hampshire's final and official turnout will be in excess of 70 percent, Gardner said, well above the national average of 58 percent.

"Again we're seeing turnout nationally go down in each of the last three elections even as more and more states rush to make it easier to vote by having early voting," said Gardner, who opposes that reform.

Nine of the 10 counties had a community or ward with at least 90 percent turnout; the exception was Strafford County.

Hillsborough County had the most number of communities with this level of turnout — eight.

The highest overall turnout of 84.6 percent was in Sullivan County, which narrowly edged out Hillsborough County.

Cheshire County had the lowest turnout overall of 77.8 percent.

Getting people out

"What this really speaks to is how energized both parties were in getting people out," said Greg Moore, state director of Americans for Prosperity, who managed a Republican campaign for governor in 2010.

"The Democrats have just been doing a much better job in the ground game over the last decade or so, but Republicans really did step up their game."

Moore credits the U.S. Senate campaign between Sen. Kelly Ayotte, R-NH, and Democratic Gov. Maggie Hassan with helping boost the turnout.

"When you have a race generating up to $150 million in resources, trust me, voting turnout is going to be high," Moore said.

An interesting feature of many high turnout locations in New Hampshire is that the race was not competitive; in other words, Trump or Clinton typically won by a large margin.

Nashua Ward 1 along with Manchester Wards 6 and 8, were the highest turnout in those cities, all over 90 percent.

"Those are the most Republican wards in both places," Moore said.

Candidate identity can also drive turnout. Newfields was in the top echelon of communities and it happens to be the hometown of both New Hampshire Gov.-Elect Chris Sununu and Gov. and U.S. Sen.-Elect Hassan.

Another high turnout place was Windham, the hometown of Trump's former campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski.

Trump hosted two rallies in that community, one before the first-in-the-nation primary and then a second after he had wrapped up the nomination.

Voter fraud claims

Meanwhile even though state election officials discredit Trump's claim of rampant voter fraud in New Hampshire, two Trump supporters promoted the idea.

Longtime Trump supporter Paula Johnson said on CNN last week that at her polling station in Nashua, she caught people voting illegally who told her: "The President said I could vote, I'm here illegally."

When the CNN commentator asked where President Barack Obama said undocumented immigrants could vote, another New Hampshire backer, Susan DeLemus chimed in with, "Google it. You can find it on Facebook."

Johnson was steadfast in her opinion, concluding, "I believe there is voter fraud in this country."

Both have been elected officials. DeLemus is a state representative who lost her seat on Nov. 8; Johnson is a former Nashua alderman.

klandrigan@unionleader.com
Copyright, 2016, Union Leader Corp.
