
Dan Tuohy's Granite Status: Granite Staters weigh in on White House transition
Newspaper December 1, 2016 | New Hampshire Union Leader/New Hampshire Sunday News: Web Edition Articles (Manchester, NH)
Author: DAN TUOHY Section: Granite Status 1567 Words

THAT TWEET had "a life of its own," said Tom Rath, the former GOP national committeeman and former attorney general. He was speaking of his post Sunday after Trump alleged "serious voter fraud," including in the Granite State. He tweeted: "This will probably cost me my spot in the cabinet but there was no fraud, serious or other, in this election in NH. There wasn't."

It has so far been retweeted 721 times and liked 1,962 times. Those are soft social engagement numbers by Trump standards, but for the rest of us, not shabby. Count Rath, however, among those who think New Hampshire needs to improve its voter registration laws. Like Gov.-elect Chris Sununu, he is open to examining same-day registration, the intent being to improve it, and nix any chance for potential mischief. Rath's been in the trenches on this issue before. He was a young prosecutor in the New Hampshire Department of Justice for "The Closest U.S. Senate Race in History," as the late Donn Tibbetts chronicled in his book by the same name, the epic match of Republican Louis Wyman vs. Democrat John Durkin. The deputy AG at the time, now retired U.S. Supreme Court Justice David Souter, called Rath at home and gave him quick marching orders to assist in preserving ballot integrity in 1974. Rath will never forget it. He also learned to appreciate and respect local election officials. Or, as he puts it, "They're honest as the day is long."

- - - - - - - - - - -

FORMER U.S. Sen. Scott P. Brown, who is being considered by Trump for secretary of Veterans Affairs, is echoing the President-elect's concerns about voter fraud in the Granite State. Brown, a Republican who lives in Rye, said the issue is with college students and Bay State residents casting ballots in New Hampshire. Democrats are pushing back, but there will be more than a dozen bills in the coming legislative session on election law. Brown will join Curt Schilling as a guest tonight when the Rockingham County Republican Committee holds its holiday party at the Portsmouth Sheraton in Portsmouth. After his meeting with Trump last week, Brown told Granite Status that Trump is, as his associates have said, a good listener. The President-elect asked a lot of questions, and not just about veterans, Brown said.

He also chatted with Brown about "Romneycare," the health care reform adopted in Massachusetts in 2006, when Romney was governor.

Dan Tuohy covers politics and government for the Union Leader and Sunday News. Email news and information to dtuohy@unionleader.com. Follow on Twitter: @tuohy.
Copyright, 2016, Union Leader Corp.
