
Presidential outcome puts all eyes on NH
Newspaper November 9, 2016 | New Hampshire Union Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH)
Author: MARK HAYWARD New Hampshire Union Leader Section: Page1 617 Words
Page: 1
New Hampshire appeared to be crucial yet again in a presidential contest as the campaigns of Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump hung their hopes on a few key states Tuesday, including New Hampshire.

At about midnight, the race was too close to call. Trump was up, 49 to 46 percent, with 66 percent of precincts reporting.

At the Trump victory party at the Derryfield Country Club, the mood seesawed from disbelief, to elation to impatience, as about 90 people waited for networks to call the race.

Crowd responses went from “Noooo” to chants of “Trump Trump” at the Derryfield.

The biggest cheer of the night came at 10:25 p.m. when Fox News called Ohio for Trump.

“He had all the momentum going into election day,” said Andrew Hemingway, co-chairman of the New Hampshire Trump campaign.

Clinton, 69 -- a former Secretary of State, U.S. senator and first lady -- hopes to be the first woman elected to the presidency.

But a victory may very well depend on New Hampshire, a state she lost by 22 percentage points to Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders in the February presidential primary.

In New Hampshire, hundreds of thousands showed up to vote. Officials had predicted that 738,606 residents would cast votes, about 72 percent of all eligible voters.

In Ward 8 in south Manchester, voters registering for the first time had to wait in line for about an hour, several said.

Early exit polls, reported by the Wall Street Journal, reflected an electorate frustrated over both major party candidates. Most voters doubted the honesty and trustworthiness of both Clinton and Trump.

But a majority said Clinton had the temperament to be President; not so for Trump.

“I’m torn,” said Christina Allen, a middle school teacher and Democrat after voting in Ward 8 in Manchester. “I like what he’s about, but I didn’t like the way he comes across,” said Allen, who said she ended up voting for Clinton out of party loyalty.

Hemingway said Trump had won suburban towns such as Derry and Londonderry.

And even when he lost -- for example in Ward 9 in Manchester -- it was by a slim margin. (Ninety votes in Ward 9, compared to 500 by Romney four years earlier.)

Clinton won the Republican town of Amherst and the bellwether town of Bow.

Trump, who won the New Hampshire presidential primary in February, campaigned in the Granite State 10 times after receiving the Republican nomination.

On election eve, he filled the Southern New Hampshire University arena in downtown Manchester. At one point, the winner of the New Hampshire Republican primary said: “I have never disappointed New Hampshire and New Hampshire has never disappointed me.”

“I just think he’s the better candidate,” said Sue Casey of Manchester. “I have a lot of problems with Hillary. He’s controversial, but I like a lot of the stuff he stands for.”

Legions of prosecutors with the New Hampshire Attorney General’s Office and the U.S. Attorney were prepared to pounce on any issue of voter irregularities, intimidation or fraud.

But by early evening, no significant issues arose. One problem centered on an Accuvote scanning machine that was not working in Manchester.

For a time, poll workers put ballots in a box, which prompted calls from voters who thought it was unusual, said Mark Zuckerman, an assistant U.S. Attorney manning a voter fraud hotline.

Nicholl Marshall, moderator in Manchester Ward 2, said the ballot machine at Hillside Middle School was having trouble accepting ballots early Tuesday but the problem was eventually fixed.

Three towns -- Dixville Notch, Hart’s Location and Millsfield -- cast early votes shortly after midnight Tuesday and closed their polls. Trump won in the early voting, 32 votes to 25.

Union Leader reporters Dan Tuohy and David Solomon contributed to this article.
Copyright, 2016, Union Leader Corp.
