
Dave Solomon's State House Dome: New man in the election hot seat
Newspaper December 4, 2016 | New Hampshire Union Leader/New Hampshire Sunday News: Web Edition Articles (Manchester, NH)
Author: DAVE SOLOMON Section: State House Dome 918 Words
HE'S BEEN AN assistant attorney general since 2012, but nothing he'd done in the past quite prepared Brian Buonamano for the media storm he had to deal with on Monday morning.

Buonamano took over the Election Law Unit from Assistant Attorney General Steve Labonte, just in time for the September primary and November election, when voter fraud moved front and center as an issue, thanks in large part to President-elect Donald Trump.

"I told Steve, this job became famous right after he left," Buonamano said, conducting one interview on the phone while holding TV crews at bay in the lobby of the Justice Department.

Along with officials in the Secretary of State's office, Buonamano became the chief defender of New Hampshire's election process against allegations of widespread voter fraud.

"The Election Law unit is working on a great variety of complaints, but there's a relatively small proportion that fall in the voter fraud type of category," he said.

Most of them fall into the categories of political advertising, financial disclosures, improper electioneering and push polls.

Deputy Attorney General Ann Rice told lawmakers at the Department of Justice budget presentation that more manpower is needed to resolve a backlog of 50 such complaints.

"I don't do the budget, but I will tell you just from my own perspective, there is a public expectation that we have a vigorous Election Law Unit," said Buonamano, "and I don't know how we can meet that with one attorney working on election law issues part time, and that's me."

A personal thank-you

That's the headline on the email that went out last week inviting supporters of Democratic gubernatorial candidate Colin Van Ostern to a "casual thank-you drink and get-together as we begin to say goodbye to 2016."

The event is at the True Brew in Concord, 3 Bicentennial Square, on Wednesday from 4 to 7 p.m.

"I've been touched by the thousands of people who have written, emailed, Facebooked, texted, and stopped me in the grocery store to offer words of support and shared purpose in the past few weeks," Van Ostern wrote, "and I've been grateful for the chance to offer a personal thanks of my own each time. But before we ring in the New Year, I thought it would be nice to get together so I can buy you a drink and say thank you in person."

Van Ostern, who decided to run for governor instead of seeking re-election to the Executive Council, will be out of public office come the New Year, but given his extensive career in politics and his relative youth, it's doubtful he'll retreat entirely to the private sector indefinitely.

Dairy bailout deadline

One of the first issues facing the newly elected Legislature will be a proposed $3.6 million relief fund for the state's ailing dairy farms, suffering from a combination of drought and low milk prices.

Outgoing Gov. Maggie Hassan came down on the side of dairy farmers last week, urging the Dairy Producers Task Force to approve an appropriation when it meets again on Monday.

After several public hearings, the task force is expected to finally vote on whether to recommend a bailout to the Legislature, how much the bailout should be, and how it should be distributed.

In her letter to the task force, Hassan repeats the now discredited claim that 20 of the states 120 farms have gone out of business in the past year.

"I have spoken with dairy farmers from across the state and seen the negative impact this year's drought has had on their crops," Hassan writes. "These conditions have resulted in more than 20 of our state's 120 dairy farms closing their dairy operations."

At the last meeting of the task force on Nov. 15, Colleen Smith, an administrator in the state department that licenses dairy farms, told lawmakers that as of Oct. 6, there are 124 dairy farms licensed in the state, which includes commercial farms that ship their milk away in big silver trucks for processing, and smaller farms that process their own milk.

Her report showed that the number of dairy farms has gone up and down over the years, but in terms of actual closures (as in shut down, out of business), the state is down four farms since 2014, when the number of licensed farms stood at 128.

So where does this intractable notion that the state has lost 20 of 120 farms come from? It all stems from a misunderstanding about a previous report that stated 20 farms previously licensed for wholesale commercial shipping did not reapply for licenses. Somehow, that got interpreted to mean 20 went out of business.

That's not to say the dairy industry in the state is not in need of some financial assistance. That will be up to the state Legislature, assuming the task force votes Monday to recommend legislation.

Given the intensity of testimony pro and con in four separate hearings, that's no sure thing.

Sununu's team takes shape

Gov.-elect Chris Sununu has brought on Bill Ardinger as an adviser on budget issues and public policy.

The Concord-based tax attorney will work closely with Charlie Arlinghaus, head of the Josiah Bartlett Center, who was previously named budget director for the Sununu transition.

Ardinger is a business and tax attorney with Rath, Young and Pignatelli, and serves as the head of the firm's Tax Practice Group.

His work on tax and budget policy goes back to 1980 when, two years before graduating from the University of New Hampshire, he was elected to the New Hampshire House of Representatives and served on the Ways and Means Committee.

dsolomon@unionleader.com
Copyright, 2016, Union Leader Corp.
