
What’s old is new again on GOP’s policy agenda
Newspaper November 15, 2016 | New Hampshire Union Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH)
Author: DAVE SOLOMON State House Bureau Section: Page1 779 Words
Page: 1
Priorities: Republicans are already filing bills, with promises to file more in weeks ahead.

CONCORD -- With legislative majorities and a Republican governor taking office, GOP lawmakers are poised to see policy priorities they’ve pushed for years become reality.

The list includes right-to-work legislation, a needle-exchange program, concealed carry of a handgun without a permit and new rules for voter registration.

State Rep. David Bates, R-Windham, has four bills in the works aimed at tightening voting requirements, and promises more will be filed in the weeks ahead.

Requiring voters to prove that they live in New Hampshire is high on the agenda, according to Senate Majority Leader Jeb Bradley.

“We don’t want to keep anyone from voting, but people who are not (New Hampshire) residents, should not be voting here,” he said. “It’s going to be a priority for us to be sure we have clean and transparent elections.”

Courts have ruled that it’s sufficient for voters to demonstrate that they have a “domicile” in the state, not necessarily a permanent residence.

The most ambitious proposal from Bates is for a constitutional amendment that would overturn those rulings and establish a residency requirement.

In the short-term, Republicans are likely to revive last year’s ill-fated effort to impose a 30-day residency requirement for voting.

“I think right off the bat, that’s something we’re going to get behind,” said Bradley. “I don’t think it’s onerous to ask people if they are going to vote in New Hampshire that they be bonafide residents of New Hampshire, at least for the previous 30 days.”

Newly elected Republican state senators Bill Gannon from the Exeter-Kingston area, and James Gray from the Rochester area were state reps who worked on a conference committee with senators on voter legislation in the last session.

“I expect that along with Sen. (Regina) Birdsell (of Hampstead), they will take the lead in sponsoring this legislation and moving it forward in the Senate,” Bradley said.

Bates will be taking the fight to the House. He said the current system that allows individuals without photo ID to sign a voter affidavit is not well-enforced.

“There are still affidavits from the last presidential election that have not been investigated,” he said, “so that process is in serious need of change.”

David Scanlan, deputy secretary of state for elections, did not have a number for voter affidavits filed in lieu of identification for last week’s election, but 1,600 were received in 2014. Scanlan said the secretary of state usually receives only a “handful” of voting complaints for the attorney general to investigate after each election.

Bates acknowledges that the problem is not widespread, but said it needs to be addressed. As a supervisor of the checklist in Windham, he said he’s witnessed it firsthand.

“I would say it’s very hard to quantify because the reality is that very few people are looking for it,” he said. “We don’t have processes in place that really check for voter fraud.”

Needle exchange

Bradley is one of three Republicans to sponsor a bill to establish a needle exchange program in the state, along with state representatives Harold Parker, R-Wolfeboro, and Karel Crawford, R-Moultonborough.

The idea of allowing addicts to turn in dirty needles -- without fear of arrest -- to reduce the transmission of infectious diseases hit a roadblock in committee last year, but will be back before lawmakers in 2017, Bradley said.

“There was a lot of debate last year, and I think the people weren’t quite ready for it,” said Bradley. “But I think the second time may be a charm. There’s a reasonable chance.”

Bradley said Parker worked hard after the bill stalled to win the support of law enforcement officials, whose opposition had a lot to do with the bill’s demise.

Right-to-work

Republicans passed right-to-work legislation in 2011, but could not override a veto by Gov. John Lynch.

Right-to-work legislation would prohibit collective bargaining agreements that require employees to join a union and restrict the power of unions to collect dues from non-members.

Bradley cited the recent decision by firearms manufacturer Sturm Ruger to expand in North Carolina. “That’s a good manufacturer with a lot of good-paying jobs in Newport, and they chose to expand in a right-to-work state,” said Bradley.

Democratic State Sen. Lou D’Allesandro of Manchester, who has argued against right-to-work on the Senate floor in the past, believes the battle may be over. “Right-to-work is in our future,” he said.

Concealed carry

Less than two months ago, the state Senate failed to override Gov. Maggie Hassan’s veto of a bill that would allow concealed carry of a handgun without a permit.

When the New Hampshire Union Leader reported on that development in a Sept. 29 article, reader Steven Miller posted what may turn out to be a prescient comment: “Don’t worry. The new governor will sign the bill next year.”

dsolomon@unionleader.com
Copyright, 2016, Union Leader Corp.
