
Trump promises election ‘suspense’
Newspaper October 20, 2016 | New Hampshire Union Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH)
Author: KEVIN LANDRIGAN New Hampshire Union Leader Section: Page1 1014 Words
Page: 1

Final debate: Candidates engage in several bitter exchanges.

Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump accused Democratic rival Hillary Clinton’s campaign of getting nine women to come up with allegations that Trump had groped them. (Related stories, Page B1.)

And Trump declined to say that he would accept the result on Nov. 8 if he loses.

“I will look at it at the time; I will keep you in suspense,” Trump said at Wednesday night’s debate in Las Vegas.

Clinton said Trump has said for years that whenever outcomes are against him, he cries foul.

“Let me respond to that because that is horrifying,” Clinton said.

During their final debate, Trump, 70, again denied that he sexually assaulted any of the female accusers and either Clinton’s campaign put them up to it or they were seeking their “10 minutes of fame.”

“Those stories have been largely debunked; I have a feeling how they came out, I believe it was her campaign that did it,” Trump said.

Clinton, 68, said Trump’s denials ring hollow and didn’t answer Trump’s accusation about her campaign.

“Donald thinks belittling women makes him bigger. He goes after their dignity, their self-worth and I don’t think there is a woman anywhere who doesn’t know what that feels like,” Clinton said.

In another sharp exchange, Trump called the Clinton Foundation a “criminal enterprise” and said Clinton should return the millions in donations from countries that oppress people.

“It is a world-renowned charity and I am so proud of what this foundation has done,” Clinton said.

Trump said Clinton would dismantle the Second Amendment and weaken the rights of gun owners.

The two also debated bitterly over immigration reform, Trump claiming Clinton had supported in 2006 his signature issue, to build a wall along the southern border.

“Hillary Clinton wanted the wall; Hillary Clinton fought for the wall in 2006,” Trump declared.

Clinton said Trump would support deporting 15 million undocumented adults and children, which would tear the country apart.

“I voted for border security and there are some limited places where that was appropriate ... but it is clear when you look at what Donald is proposing; he has a very different view about what we should do to deal with immigrants,” Clinton said.

Trump cited New Hampshire in making the case that an immigration crackdown would help the nation deal with the heroin epidemic.

“The single biggest problem is heroin that pours across our borders from the south and poisons our people,” Trump said. “Right now we are getting the drugs; they are getting the cash.”

On guns, Trump said those who support ownership should be worried if Clinton gets elected.

“We need a Supreme Court that ... will uphold the Second Amendment which is under terrible siege,” Trump said.

If Clinton, 68, is elected, the Second Amendment will be “a very small replica of what it is right now,” Trump warned.

Clinton defended her support of the Second Amendment but voiced support for gun control such as criminal background checks and closing the so-called gun show loophole.

“I understand and respect the traditions of gun ownership. I also believe there can be and should be reasonable regulation,” Clinton said.

Unlike past, final presidential debates, the candidates were not seated but both said they preferred to stand at a lectern. The two candidates did not shake hands before or after the event. At one point, Trump referred to Clinton as “such a nasty woman.”

Trump vowed to support judges that would restrict legal abortions, while Clinton said she would support those who would oppose restrictions on abortions.

“Indeed he said women should be punished, that there should be some kind of punishment for women who have abortions but I just can’t be more opposed to that,” Clinton said.

Trump said he finds it astounding that Clinton opposes a ban on late-term or so-called partial birth abortions.

“In the ninth month, you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb of the mother. You can say that is OK and Hillary can say it’s OK, but it’s not OK with me,” Trump said.

The first time the Wiki leaks memos were released, Clinton pivoted to criticize the Russian government as the likely source and challenge Trump to join her in criticizing it.

“Finally will Donald Trump condemn the Russian government for doing this, that he rejects Russian espionage,” Clinton said.

After the moderator directly asked him, Trump criticized the hack.

“Of course I condemn, I condemn. I haven’t met Putin; I don’t know Putin,” Trump said adding that the Russian leader has outsmarted Clinton when she was secretary of state.

Latest NH poll

In the past week, Trump has maintained that the bias of the national media and rampant voter fraud threaten to make this a rigged election. On Tuesday, President Obama urged Trump to stop “whining” and said it showed the GOP nominee didn’t have the intestinal fortitude to handle the job.

In the latest New Hampshire poll released Wednesday night, Clinton opened up a large, 15-point lead over Trump, 49 percent to 34 percent, according to the University of New Hampshire Survey Center report for WMUR.

Libertarian nominee Gary Johnson gets 8 percent, Green Party candidate Jill Stein has 2 percent support; the other 7 percent are undecided.

Among likely voters, 62 percent said Clinton had the right experience to be President, compared to only 18 percent who said Trump did.

A Trump campaign spokesman noted the Clinton campaign had questioned the accuracy of WMUR-UNH polls in the past.

“This poll is historically wrong and does not reflect the sentiments we are hearing from voters as we go door to door. Simply put, this poll under-samples Republicans and doesn’t accurately reflect the independent nature of Granite State voters as they walk into the polls,” said Mike Biundo, a senior advisor in the Trump campaign and NH GOP strategist.

New Hampshire still continues to get plenty of attention from both camps. Vice President Joe Biden comes to Nashua today while Trump’s running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, returns for two events here on Friday.

Clinton comes back Monday for her third stop since wrapping up the nomination. She will appear with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren.

klandrigan@unionleader.com
Copyright, 2016, Union Leader Corp.
