
State flags 27 cases of voter fraud
Newspaper January 3, 2017 | Wyoming Tribune-Eagle (Cheyenne, WY)
Author: James Chilton Section: Local News - Main 807 Words
State flags 27 cases of voter fraud
bkm

State flags 27 possible cases of voter registration fraud in Laramie County

This story was written on: 12/30/2016

At a glance

The Laramie County Clerk's Office has uncovered up to 27 potential cases of local voter registration fraud related to the Nov. 8 election. The potential fraud was discovered earlier this month as clerk employees submitted Election Day registrations to the Wyoming Secretary of State's statewide voter database. Of the 27 cases, 11 were flagged for potentially being felons, while 16 were flagged as potential non-citizens. The names have been handed over to Laramie County District Attorney Jeremiah Sandburg, who has asked the Laramie County Sheriff's Department to investigate.

By James Chilton

Wyoming Tribune Eagle

CHEYENNE - The Laramie County Clerk's office suspects that as many as 27 people may have fraudulently registered to vote in the Nov. 8 general election, after that many registrations were flagged earlier this month by the Wyoming Secretary of State's Office.

County Clerk Debra Lee said the potential fraud was discovered as her office was entering Election Day registrations into the statewide voter database. Because so many people turned out to register and vote on Nov. 8, Lee's office had gotten an extension through Dec. 13 to finish processing those registrations with the state.

"The flags appear when you enter a record (with the state voter database)," Lee said Thursday. "We're talking possibly 11 felons and 16 potential non-citizens who got registered Nov. 8 - showed up at a vote center and registered."

State Elections Director Kai Schon said his office coordinates the voter database with several other state agencies, including the Department of Transportation, Department of Health, Division of Criminal Investigation and Department of Corrections. He said when a new registration comes in from a county clerk's office, the name, address and other information of the registrant are cross-referenced with those other databases.

"If our system sees anybody with a name paired with that information (in one of the other systems), it'll say hey, this person's a potential felon, or potentially deceased or potentially a non-citizen," Schon said. "At that point, the county looks again and says OK, this is actually that person."

For felons, it was simple enough to cross-reference their information with that maintained by the Department of Corrections. But Schon noted that this is the first year potential non-citizens have been flagged through the voter database, using driver's license information collected by WYDOT.

Schon said you don't have to be an American citizen to obtain a Wyoming driver's license, but that WYDOT does keep records on the nationality of those who do receive them.

"At the beginning of 2016, in the data extract from the Department of Transportation, we asked them to include citizenship values they'd been collecting in their database since the beginning," Schon said.

Wyoming law makes it a felony to register to vote when the registrant knows they aren't eligible - as would be the case for non-citizens or felons who have not had their voting rights restored - and the same goes for actually casting a ballot under those conditions. Either act is punishable by up to five years in prison and a $10,000 fine.

Since ballots are cast in secret, Schon said there's nothing the county or state can do if the 27 suspected cases of voter fraud included ballots cast. But he also noted that with more than 40,000 ballots cast in Laramie County, the incidence of suspected fraud in the November election would be less than seven-hundredths of one percent.

And "suspected" is still the operative term, since it would fall to the Laramie County District Attorney's Office to prosecute any such allegations. Laramie County District Attorney Jeremiah Sandburg said that - particularly in the case of felons - registration fraud can be difficult to prove, depending on the individual's circumstances and the fact that some states automatically restore felons' rights while others don't.

"I do know for law enforcement, the trick with people who are convicted felons, they'll run a criminal history on them, but even if they do have a conviction, we have to dig further to see if they've had their rights restored," Sandburg said Friday. "The question is: did they intentionally do it? Intent is a part of it, that they knowingly violated the law."

Still, Sandburg said his office takes any potential felonies seriously, and registration fraud is no exception. He said Lee has already handed the list of flagged names over to his office, which Sandburg, in turn, has given to the Laramie County Sheriff's Department.

"We had that meeting last week and discussed what the next steps should be," Sandburg said. "The first question is who is in charge of these investigations, and we talked to (Sheriff Danny Glick), and he took that list to his detectives for further investigation."

James Chilton

is the Wyoming Tribune Eagle's local government reporter. He can be reached at jchilton@wyomingnews.com or 307-633-3182. Follow him on Twitter at @JournoJChilton.
Copyright, 2017, Wyoming Tribune-Eagle. All rights reserved.
