Committee rejects bill on voter ID
Newspaper January 27, 2017 | Wyoming Tribune-Eagle (Cheyenne, WY)
Author: Matt Murphy Section: Local News - Main 924 Words
Committee rejects bill on voter ID
bkm

Voter ID bill rejected by House committee

What's next?

Bills that were advanced by the committee will go to the full House for consideration.

By Matt Murphy

Wyoming Tribune Eagle

CHEYENNE - The House Corporations, Elections and Political Subdivisions Committee on Thursday voted down a bill to require voters to show photo identification at the polls.

But it advanced bills concerning a system for permanent absentee ballots, election recounts and the date at which an absentee ballot must be accepted.

Voter ID

Committee members voted down a voter ID bill that was brought by committee member Rep. Lars Lone, R-Cheyenne.

Lone said he was given a ballot for an incorrect precinct when he went to vote and said if he had been required to show identification, that situation could have been avoided. Lone said he was not bringing the bill because of voter fraud concerns.

However, questions were raised about the effectiveness of voter ID laws, how absentee voters would need to prove identity and disenfranchisement of voters who may not have a government photo identification.

County clerks said voter fraud is extremely rare and didn't know how having to show identification would have fixed Lone's situation.

Several people, including Carbon County Clerk Gwynn Bartlett, said the bill could be an issue for elderly voters, some of whom have never had a photo identification.

Lee Filer, a former Democratic representative who ran against Lone in the 2016 general election, used the example of a senior citizen home in his district.

"About 60 percent of the people who live there - most of them haven't had an ID in 10 years," he said. "My grandmother never had a state ID ever."

Albany County Clerk Jackie Gonzales said human error does happen among poll workers, like marking the wrong person as having voted, but her office always tries to resolve disputes. People can also cast a provisional ballot when a dispute exists.

Gonzales also said no county in Wyoming requires identification at the polls as long as a voter is already registered, which contradicted a statement made by Lone that there is a patchwork of voter ID laws in Wyoming counties.

Representatives of the League of Women Voters, the Equality State Policy Center and the American Civil Liberties Union also spoke against the bill.

Reps. James Byrd, D-Cheyenne; Dan Furphy, R-Laramie; Tyler Lindholm, R-Sundance; and Dan Zwonitzer, R-Cheyenne; all voted against the bill.

Lone and Reps. Roy Edwards, R-Gillette; and Danny Eyre, R-Lyman; voted in favor.

Reps. Jim Blackburn, R-Cheyenne, and Pat Sweeney, R-Casper, were not present for the vote.

Permanent

absentee ballots

A bill creating a process by which a person can request permanent absentee voter status was advanced to the full House by the committee.

Under a permanent absentee designation, a voter would automatically be sent an absentee ballot instead of having to request one for each election.

Voters would be able to become permanent absentees at the time they request an absentee ballot, after which the voter would then receive absentee ballots for all subsequent elections for which the voter is eligible.

However, permanent absentee status would be revoked by death, by becoming ineligible to vote, by an absentee ballot being returned as undeliverable or by request of the voter.

Blackburn, Byrd, Eyre, Furphy, Lindholm, Sweeney and Zwonitzer voted in favor of House Bill 46. Edwards and Lone voted against.

Election recounts

House Bill 163, which deals with election recounts, was also advanced by the committee.

Under the bill, a candidate requesting a recount would be liable for a greater cost of the recount.

Recounts in Wyoming are automatic if the margin between candidates is less than one percent. Candidates can request a recount for margins above one percent but must pay a $100 deposit that can be returned if the result of the election is changed.

The bill advanced by the committee would create a tier system in which the cost of the deposit rises as the margin of error rises, with the deposit topping out at $3,000 if the margin between candidates is more than 10 percent.

The bill came after elections in Park County were requested to be recounted, including one where the margin was 14 percent, said Rep. David Northrup, R-Powell, the sponsor of the bill.

The bill was also supported by county clerks.

All members of the committee except Edwards voted in favor of the bill.

Absentee ballots

The committee also narrowly advanced House Bill 68, which, as amended, directs county clerks to accept absentee ballots that arrive between Election Day and the official canvass as long as the ballots were postmarked by the Monday prior to the election.

Zwonitzer brought the bill, saying absentee ballots that arrived after this year's primary and general election days could have changed the outcome of those races.

One of those races was a three-way Senate contest between his father, Rep. Dave Zwonitzer, Anthony Bouchard and Lindi Kirkbride. The elder Zwonitzer lost to Bouchard by five votes.

Another primary race in House District 41 was decided by two votes.

Committee members and those who spoke debated voter responsibility to mail ballots on time and situations where a mailed ballot may not arrive by Election Day even though it was mailed days ahead of time.

County clerks expressed concerns over the bill, and some said voters should be responsible for ensuring their ballot arrives by 7 p.m. on Election Day.

The bill passed the committee by a 5-4 vote, with Blackburn, Byrd, Lindholm, Sweeney and Zwonitzer voting in favor and Edwards, Eyre, Furphy and Lone voting against.

Matt Murphy

is the Wyoming Tribune Eagle's state government reporter. He can be reached at mmurphy@wyomingnews.com or 307-633-3124. Follow him on Twitter at @mattmurphywy.
Copyright, 2017, Wyoming Tribune-Eagle. All rights reserved.
