
Bill would let Wyomingites be "Permanent absentee" voters
Newspaper November 22, 2016 | Wyoming Tribune-Eagle (Cheyenne, WY)
Author: Matt Murphy Section: Local News - Main 507 Words

At a glance

Wyoming voters could become "permanent absentee" voters under a bill that will go before the full Legislature next year.

By Matt Murphy

Wyoming Tribune Eagle

CHEYENNE - Wyoming voters would be able to apply for status as a permanent absentee voter under a proposed law that will be considered by the Legislature in 2017.

The Legislature's Joint

Corporations, Elections and Political Subdivisions Committee voted Monday to forward such a bill to the full body.

Under a permanent absentee designation, a voter would automatically be sent an absentee ballot instead of having to request one for each election.

However, a voter could lose his or her permanent absentee status for one of several reasons stipulated in the bill.

Fremont County Clerk Julie

Freese

said absentee voting saves her office time as the election nears, as it cuts down on paperwork and the number of people who vote early in person as well as on Election Day.

"That is a big savings to us," she said.

The change would also benefit voters, who wouldn't have to contact the clerk's office every election year.

Carbon County Clerk Gwynn Bartlett said in her county, 1,950 absentee ballots were requested for this year's general election.

"It's really a convenience to the voter," she said.

Voters would be able to become permanent absentees at the time they request an absentee ballot.

The voter would then receive absentee ballots for all subsequent elections for which the voter is eligible.

However, permanent absentee status would be revoked by death, by becoming ineligible to vote, by an absentee ballot being returned as undeliverable or by request of the voter.

Some lawmakers were concerned that the change could allow for instances of voter fraud.

"I have real reservations as a permanent change because I think people would get a ballot...and you would create a situation where we're quite uncertain who won an election," said Sen. Charles Scott, R-Casper.

While

Freese

said such a situation could happen even under the current system, voter rolls are updated regularly.

Kai

Schon

, the election director for the state, said the Secretary of State's office receives information on deaths from the Department of Health weekly and updates from the Department of Transportation daily.

That information is used to check against voter rolls.

In addition, a permanent absentee voter would still be subject to the voter purge that takes place after every general election.

Voters who do not vote in the general election are removed from voter rolls if they do not respond to notices of removal, though they can re-register again.

Rep. Tyler

Lindholm

, R-Sundance, said it appears absentee voting continues to expand.

He said he's still against going to a complete vote-by-mail election system like in Colorado, Washington and Oregon, but supported the permanent absentee bill.

"We're not changing the system, we're just asking to make it a little more streamlined for our clerks," he said.

Matt Murphy

is the Wyoming Tribune Eagle's state government reporter. He can be reached at mmurphy@wyomingnews.com or 307-633-3124. Follow him on Twitter at @

mattmurphywy

.
Copyright, 2016, Wyoming Tribune-Eagle. All rights reserved.
