Saban says he voted absentee, but was it legal? 
November14,2016 |BirminghamNews:WebEditionArticles (AL) Author: Kyle Whitmire 
Section: Opinion 
841 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
President-elect Donald Trump isn't the only one who likes to needle the media. Crimson Tide coach Nick Saban has been doing the same thing for years, and Saturday wasn't any different. In his free-wheeling, sometimes stream-of-consciousness style, Saban bent the media's noses for reporting he didn't vote. 
And he wasn't talking about the coaches' poll. "I never said I didn't vote, which you all ---now that's like the big news story all over the country," Saban 
said in his post-game press conference. "I said I got an absentee ballot. Tuesday's our biggest workday and game plan day, and I forgot it was Election Day until I got home at 11 o'clock at night. "So I don't know how all these things get sort of twisted around," he continued. "I guess it makes a better 
story." I'm not a sports columnist. I'm a political columnist. So I'm not as skilled at unpacking Saban's zig
zagging statements as some of my sports colleagues, but here's what I think a reasonable person could infer from the coach's comments. First, he was in Tuscaloosa Co., where he's registered to vote, on Election Day. Second, he voted by absentee ballot, because he was busy with work that day. Which brings us to the question: Did Saban break the law if he voted absentee? Shift work I'm not going to string this out. If you liberally interpret Alabama law, he could still be within the lines of 
what's legal. 
And even if he's not, nobody's going to challenge him on it. Call it the election law equivalent of gray-shirting. Under Alabama law, there are six reasons you can ask for an absentee ballot, and you must specify 
which one you're traveling under when you apply to vote absentee: 
* 
You will be out of the county or the state on Election Day; 
* 
Because of illness or infirmity, you are unable to go to the polls; 
* 
You work a shift of 10 hours or more that coincides with when the polls are open; 
* 
You are a student outside your home county; 
* 
You are a member of the U.S. Armed Forces; 
* 
You are a poll worker working a poll that's not your own. Could you apply that third excuse to Saban? After all, the Crimson Tide had to be very worried after Mississippi State beat Texas A&M, and a 10-hour workday certainly seems plausible. But does that 
qualify as a shift? Do you have to punch a clock? And if he is a shift worker, what does he make an hour? I called an election law attorney, Edward Still to clear things up. Ugly laws The thing you have to remember first about Alabama law is that it is written by Alabama lawmakers, 
which is to say, it's sloppy. Take that first exemption: "I will be out of the county or the state on election day." "I don't know how you could ever be in the county if you're out of the state," Still said. "It doesn't matter if 
you're out of the state. What matters if if you're out of your home county." Again, when lawmakers make our laws, they aren't master craftsmen. But when it comes to working on Election Day, do you actually have to punch a clock to qualify as a 
shift-worker? After all, the state requires employers to give employees an hour off work to go vote, no 
matter if they work a shift or not. For some reason, Still seemed reluctant to accuse the most popular, and maybe most powerful, man in Alabama of voter fraud. 
"Give him the benefit of working a shift," Still said. "Let's just turn him into an industrial worker. And he was working on the line, undoubtedly." A better system Likely you're thinking, What does it really matter? 
And I agree with you. It shouldn't. But if I'm picking nits, I'm doing it for a reason. 
You see, if Alabama would only join the 21st century, none of this would be an issue at all. 
Because in most states, citizens don't have to choose between doing their duty and doing their jobs. 
In total, 37 states allow some form of early voting or unexcused absentee voting, either at regular polling places or by in-person absentee. In three states --Oregon, Washington and Colorado --citizens vote by mail. 
Just like Nick Saban. 
Only 13 states don't allow unexcused absentee voting, one of those being Alabama. 
If Saban wanted to vote absentee because he was going to be overwhelmed with work that day, that's fine by me. But if it's good enough for Saban, it should be good enough for you. If we are going to give football coaches that opportunity, we should give it to everybody. 
So far, however, our lawmakers have shown no interest in making voting easier or more convenient. They'd rather make it harder, no matter if that puts us behind the rest of the country, again. 
Because in Alabama, we're number one, but only in football. 
Copyright, 2016, Birmingham News. All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Kyle Whitmire,kwhitmire@al.com, 'Sabansays he votedabsentee,butwas itlegal? ', Birmingham News: Web Edition Articles (online), 14 Nov 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160A9AFC31700D38 
