Trump's war with the press 
January 29,2017 |BirminghamNews:WebEdition Articles (AL) 
Author: J.D. Crowe 
Section: Opinion 
393 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Donald Trump is not only my president, he is a fodder figure. 
For the sake of the country, I hope he becomes one of the best presidents America has ever seen. In the process, I hope the new president finds the press is not the enemy. Neither is the truth. 
Trump not only has a "running war with the media", as he calls it, he has a running war with facts. 
On his first day in office, he trotted out his press secretary to falsely claim his inauguration was the biggest, baddest, most enormously attended inauguration in the history of inaugurations. 
Birther Trump, who questioned the legitimacy of Obama's presidency, now can't stand the fact that his electoral college victory didn't include winning the popular vote. With absolutely no proof, he hilariously claims rampant voter fraud robbed him of 3-5 million votes. He just can't help himself. Sad! 
The dirty rotten dishonest lame stream media shares some blame. The relationship with the new president got off to rocky start when a Time reporter erroneously tweeted that Trump removed a bust of Martin Luther King from the oval office. Bad, press. Bad! 
My colleague Cameron Smith has a thoughtful take on part of the problem: 
It's funny. Some think that since Trump is now president he can't be called out when he strays from the facts. After he won the election, one of his supporters commented, "He won. You won't be able to kick Trump around for the next 4 years!" 
Maybe that's what Trump strategist Stephen Bannon was thinking when he urged the "opposition party" press to back off and "keep its mouth shut." 
Uh, that's not the way it works, folks. This ain't Russia. 
Trump is no longer The Boss of Trump World where his alternative facts can't be questioned. He is the president of the United States. Everything he says and does is subject to scrutiny. That's the way we roll in America. 
As a political cartoonist, I'm trolling for topics to comment on every day. By the time this cartoon is published, Trump will likely have posted a dozen outrageous tweets that sucks the life out of everything else in the news. I need to grow octopus drawing hands just to keep up with him. 
The Trumpster will not be ignored. 
Trump is my president. I shalt not want for drawing board material. 
Have a great Sunday. Relax and enjoy some sunsets 
Copyright, 2017, Birmingham News. All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
J.D. Crowe, jdcrowe@al.com, 'Trump's war with the press', Birmingham News: Web Edition Articles (online), 29 Jan 2017 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1623A750A9BF6C78 
