Why the Marion Three case could derail Jeff Sessions. Again. 
January 6,2017 |BirminghamNews:Web Edition Articles (AL) 
Author: Roy S. Johnson 
Section: Opinion 
1037 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Was Jeff Sessions only peripherally involved in the 32-year-old case that still haunts him? 
Or was the then-U.S. attorney in Mobile hell-bent on prosecuting three African-American community leaders for alleged voter fraud in tiny Perry County, AL, even after the presiding judge rejected his theory that it was a federal crime to help or advise someone in voting, and later threw out many of the charges for lack of evidence before sending it to the jury? 
The answer, as it almost always does, likely lies somewhere in between. 
It is being shaped now--in the days before Sessions, President-elect Donald Trump's nominee for U.S. attorney general, begins confirmation hearings, scheduled for next Tuesday before the Senate Judiciary Committee--by the passionate recollections of those who were involved in the 1985 case, as well as a veritable chorus of others, most of whom believe the case should help disqualify him from serving in the critical role of the nation's highest law enforcer. 
And it actually could--just as it did in 1986 when Sessions was nominated for a federal judgeship by President Reagan. 
The Marion Three--Albert Turner, his wife, Evelyn, and Spencer Hogue--as they came to be known, were part of the Perry County Civic League, which provided food, medical, education and other support for the poor, elderly and rural residents in the county. They were accused of tampering with absentee balglots and violating federal mail fraud statutes by aiding elderly residents with their ballots, but were acquitted of all charges after the jury deliberated just three hours. 
It was a volatile, tension-filled trial and a year later, wounds from Session's prosecution of the trio had not yet healed as he went before the Judiciary Committee as a U.S. District Court nominee for the Southern District of Alabama. Salt was then added by several attorneys who had worked with Sessions and alleged he had made incendiary racial remarks towards them (Sessions denied or labelled the remarks as jokes gone wrong during testimony). 
The Committee voted 10-8 against recommending the nomination to the Senate floor, and deadlocked 99 on a vote to send him to the Senate without a recommendation. The nomination was ultimately withdrawn. 
Clearly, those wounds have still not healed. Not even close. 
That was especially clear this week, when events established the Sessions nomination as clearly the 
most controversial--and now, even shaky--of Trump's intriguing (I'll just leave it at that) cabinet nominees. 
And that's saying tons. 
So what happened? 
Well, we'd barely recovered from ringing in the new year when six members of the NAACP--including president and CEO Cornell Brooks, and Stephen Green, national director of the youth division--were arrested Tuesday after a sit-in at Sessions' office in Mobile designed to highlight their opposition to the attorney general nominee. Mission accomplished. 
Arrest of NAACP members gains national spotlight 
On that same day, a letter to the Judiciary Committee signed by 1,401 law professors representing 180 law schools in 49 states calling for the rejection of Sessions was published. It noted their concerns over his support for building a wall on the Mexican border, and "regressive drug policies that have fueled mass incarceration", as well as his "questioning of the relationship between fossil fuels and climate change" and lack of support for issues relating to equal rights for women and the LBGTQ community. 
The letter also specifically noted his prosecution of the Marion Three, calling it "misguided." 
"Nothing in Senator Sessions' public life since 1986 has convinced us that he is a different man than the 39-year-old attorney who was deemed too racially insensitive to be a federal district court judge," it stated. 
[While this does not relate to the Marion Three, it is relevant to Sessions confirmation: also on that day, three former civil-rights lawyers for the U.S. Justice Department, in an op-ed article for the Washington Post, refuted Sessions' own claim on a questionnaire that he was 'personally" involved in several desegregation cases while a U.S. attorney. "Sessions has not worked to protect civil rights," they wrote. "He worked against civil rights at every turn."] 
The only light for Sessions this week came a day later when a son of the Albert and Evelyn Turner-Albert, Jr., now a Parry County commissioner--spoke in support of the nominee, saying he was "only doing his job" by prosecuting his parents. "He is not a racist," said Turner, Jr. (His mother said her son only spoke for himself and certainly not her. "As far as I'm concerned, [Sessions] shouldn't be named to catch dogs,'' she said. Albert, Sr. died in 2000.) 
AP Photo 
Now, the icing (or the grenade) on this week was a scathing letter to the Judiciary Committee written by Deval Patrick, the former Massachusetts governor who, in 1985, sat across the courtroom from 
Sessions and his team during the trial of the Marian Three. Patrick was a 28-year-old attorney with the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, one of three who represented the accused. Patrick represented Hogue. 
That they won the case was not salve enough to soothe Patrick's disdain for Sessions' pursuit of the case, which he called "an act of extraordinary quasi-judicial activism." 
"To use prosecutorial discretion to attempt to criminalize voter assistance is wrong and should be disqualifying for any aspirant to the nation's highest law enforcement post," he wrote. 
Patrick noted other "troubling aspects" of the case, including that Sessions only investigated the use of absentee ballots "by black voters and only where white incumbents were losing ground." 
Patrick also noted that the government's 20 witnesses, all "old and frail, and had only achieved access to the ballot in their elder years" were put onto a bus under armed guard and driven 160 miles to Mobile for grand jury testimony, creating "a concerted campaign to intimidate susceptible witnesses into believing voter assistance was illegal." 
Finally, Patrick said, Sessions, "who had a reputation for plea bargaining criminal cases, many involving violence, he was adamant in refusing to consider a plea in this one." 
Read the entire letter here. 
Despite what was clearly a very bad week for the nominee, the consensus seems to remain that Sessions will ultimately be confirmed, even if tenuously. 
But before that happens, he will have to answer some questions--even some of the same questions, once again, questions he tried to answer three decades. 
We know how that worked out. 
Archibald: Did Sessions block black federal judges? 
Copyright, 2017, Birmingham News. All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Roy S. Johnson, rjohnson@al.com, 'Why the Marion Three case could derail Jeff Sessions. Again.', Birmingham News: Web Edition Articles (online), 6 Jan 2017 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/161C64FD47621B30 
