The Marion Three case could derail Sessionsagain 
January 11,2017 |BirminghamNews (AL) 
Author: Roy S. Johnson rjohnson@al.com 
Section: News 
895 Words 
Page: A11 
OpenURL 
Link 
Was Jeff Sessions only peripherally involved in the 32-yearold case that still haunts him? 
Or was the then-U.S. attorney in Mobile hell-bent on prosecuting three 
African-American community leaders for alleged voter 
fraud in tiny Perry County, even after the presiding judge rejected his theory that it was a federal crime to help or advise someone in voting, and later threw out many of the charges for lack of evidence before sending it to the jury? 
The answer, as it almost always does, likely lies somewhere in between. 
It is being shaped nowas Sessions, President-elect Donald Trumps nominee for U.S. attorney general, begins confirmation hearings before the Senate Judiciary Committee  by the passionate recollections of those who were involved in the 1985 case, as well as a veritable chorus of others, most of whom believe the case should help disqualify him from the critical role of the nations highest law enforcer. 
And it actually could  just as it did in 1986 when Sessions was nominated for a federal judgeship by President Reagan. 
The Marion Three  Albert Turner, his wife, Evelyn, and Spencer Hogue  were part of the Perry County Civic League, which provided food, medical, education and other support for the poor, elderly and rural residents in the county. 
They were accused of tampering with absentee ballots and violating federal mail fraud statutes by aiding elderly residents to vote, but were acquitted of all charges after the jury deliberated just three hours. 
It was a volatile, tension-filled trial and a year later, wounds from Sessions prosecution of the trio had not yet healed as he went before the Judiciary Committee as a U.S. District Court nominee for the Southern District of Alabama. 
Salt was then added by several attorneys who had worked with Sessions and alleged he had made incendiary racial remarks towards them(Sessions denied or labeled the remarks as jokes gone wrong during testimony then). 
The Committee voted 10-8 against recommending the nomination to the Senate floor, and deadlocked 99 on a vote to send him to the Senate without a recommendation. The nomination was ultimately withdrawn. 
Clearly, those wounds have still not healed. Not even close. 
So what happened? 
Well, wed barely recovered from ringing in the new year when six members of the NAACP  including president and CEO Cornell Brooks, and Stephen Green, national director of the youth division  were arrested after a sit-in at Sessions office in Mobile designed to highlight their opposition to the attorney general nominee. Mission accomplished. 
On that same day, a letter to the Judiciary Committee signed by 1,401 law professors representing 180 law schools in 49 states calling for the rejection of Sessions was published. 
It noted their concerns over his support for building a wall on the Mexican border, and regressive drug policies that have fueled mass incarceration, as well as his questioning of the relationship between fossil fuels and climate change and lack of support for issues relating to equal rights for women and the LBGTQ community. 
The letter also specifically noted his prosecution of the Marion Three, calling it misguided. 
Nothing in Senator Sessions public life since 1986 has convinced us that he is a different man than the 39-year-old attorney who was deemed too racially insensitive to be a federal district court judge, it stated. 
The only light for Sessions came a day later when a son of the Albert and Evelyn Turner  Albert, Jr., now a Perry County commissioner  spoke in support of the nominee, saying he was only doing his job by prosecuting his parents. 
He is not a racist, said Turner Jr. (His mother said her son only spoke for himself and certainly not her. As far as Im concerned, [Sessions] shouldnt be named to catch dogs, she said. ) 
The icing (or the grenade) was a scathing letter to the Judiciary Committee written by Deval Patrick, the former Massachusetts governor who, in 1985, sat across the courtroom from Sessions and his team during the trial of the Marion Three. 
Patrick was a 28-year-old attorney with the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, one of three who represented the accused. Patrick represented Hogue. 
That they won the case was not salve enough to soothe Patricks disdain for Sessions pursuit of the 
case, which he called an act of extraordinary quasi-judicial activism. 
To use prosecutorial discretion to attempt to criminalize voter assistance is wrong and should be disqualifying for any aspirant to the nations highest law enforcement post, he wrote. 
Patrick noted other troubling aspects of the case, including that Sessions only investigated the use of absentee ballots by black voters and only where white incumbents were losing ground. 
Patrick also noted that the governments 20 witnesses, all old and frail, and had only achieved access to the ballot in their elder years were put onto a bus under armed guard and driven 160 miles to Mobile for grand jury testimony, creating a concerted campaign to intimidate susceptible witnesses into believing voter assistance was illegal. 
Finally, Patrick said, Sessions, who had a reputation for plea bargaining criminal cases, many involving violence, he was adamant in refusing to consider a plea in this one. 
The consensus seems to remain that Sessions will ultimately be confirmed, even if tenuously. 
But before that happens, he is having to answer some questionseven some of the same questions, once again  he tried to answer three decades. 
We know how that worked out. 
Johnson writes an opinion column for AL.com 
Copyright, 2017, Birmingham News. All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Roy S. Johnson rjohnson@al.com, 'The Marion Three case could derail Sessionsagain', Birmingham News (online), 11 Jan 2017 A11 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/161DA17F5AE1AEF0 
