Why I endorse this trio of women - General election ballot has names of those ‘forged by fire’
Newspaper October 27, 2016 | Albuquerque Journal (NM)
Author: REBECCA D. VIGIL DEMOCRAT, FORMER N.M. SECRETARY OF STATE Section: Editorials 655 Words
Page: A7
Why I endorse this trio of women - General election ballot has names of those ‘forged by fire’
My ancestors Francisco Montes Vigil and Maria Jimenez Y Anciso traveled with the Juan Paez Hurtado Expedition in 1695 from Zacatecas, Mexico, and settled in Santa Cruz. They raised their 10 children in the Santa Cruz de la Canada Community Land Grant and fought hard for their family.

My father, Felix W. Vigil and my mother, Cecilia Santistevan Vigil, raised their nine children in Taos. I was the fourth daughter in our family.

My ancestors worked hard to establish their place in New Mexico. They were forged by fire.

Much like the struggles that our families have encountered over the past hundreds of years, we are still being forged by fire.

Women still fight for equal pay for equal work; children are denied a quality education because of their poverty; all this and more create reasons to get out and vote in this general election.

There are three candidates on the general election ballot that I endorse. I vote for them with conviction because I believe they also have been forged by fire.

I support Hillary Clinton for president of the United States at the top of the ballot. Although I have never met first lady, U.S. senator, secretary of state Clinton, I have great respect and admiration for her.

I observed her great strength while she was first lady. The issues she chose to champion (health care, children, education) created an impact that we all remember. She changed the lives of children and families with her compassion and intellect.

I have seen her dedication to our country while she was in public service. Her courage was evident as she overcame the false allegations and lies against her. She was put to the test, and she did not falter.

I, too, was falsely accused and never wavered from the truth. I recognize the true leadership and backbone in Hillary Clinton. She was forged by fire.

For secretary of state, I support Maggie Toulouse Oliver. In a June 13 Albuquerque Journal article by Deborah Baker, Toulouse Oliver proved she is well informed on the process and responsibilities of the Legislature and how the office of the secretary of state can be impacted by the Legislature.

Ethics is a platform issue for Toulouse Oliver. She understands how to work with our Legislature. When I became a candidate for secretary of state in 1986, my election platform was based on reducing the then-long 42-day voter registration requirement prior to an election to 28 days. It was accomplished during my first legislative session after taking office in 1987. I worked with the legislators to pass this law for New Mexico.

As Bernalillo County clerk, Toulouse Oliver has demonstrated her commitment to fair and impartial elections since 2007, nine years of election experience and knowledge. She knows the process of getting laws changed. Toulouse Oliver will not need on-the-job training.

In my 12 years as secretary of state of New Mexico and in 2005 as president of the National Association of Secretaries of State, there had never been voter fraud in elections in our country. Toulouse Oliver will not surround herself with partisan, conspiracy theorists like her present opposition has, and Maggie will once again embed trust in the office of the secretary of state. She has been forged by fire.

I support Linda Stover for Bernalillo County clerk. Linda brings a wealth of administrative experience and has great knowledge of the responsibilities of the county clerk’s office. She has always demonstrated outstanding judgement and will continue to be a good steward for that office. I recognize and understand the qualities that make great county clerks. I worked with the best New Mexico had to offer for 12 years. I have great trust and admiration for Linda Stover. She exhibits those great qualities of integrity and grit.

These three candidates have proven their experience and dedication to the citizens of our country and our state. I encourage all my family and friends and supporters to vote and consider my endorsements. Hillary, Maggie and Linda have proven that they have been forged by fire.
Copyright (c) 2016 Albuquerque Journal

