Trump needs to grow up, tend to important business - EDITORIALS
Newspaper January 25, 2017 | Albuquerque Journal (NM)
Section: Opinion 740 Words
Page: A8
Trump needs to grow up, tend to important business - EDITORIALS
There is an important caution that’s worth keeping in mind regarding impulse control in this electronic age, and it’s a version of the old “take a deep breath and count to 10” when emotions are involved. In that vein, when you are upset or hurt or angry, it is almost always smarter to let some time pass and re-read your missive before hitting “send” or stepping up to a microphone.

Somebody who can get through to him needs to tell the president.

Because now that the inauguration is over, America looks to Washington, D.C., for leadership, to tackle the very many big, serious, scary issues our nation faces — not to argue about crowd estimates or ratings or alleged voter fraud or to question the validity of peaceful protests.

Unfortunately, the latter is exactly how Donald J. Trump has spent some of his first days as leader of the free world, bragging Friday at the CIA that his inauguration crowd on the National Mall stretched “all the way back to the Washington Monument” when photos and video clearly showed it didn’t. And taking to Twitter on Sunday to comment on television ratings for his swearing-in ceremony (“Wow, television ratings just out: 31 million people+ watched the Inauguration, 11 million more than the very good ratings from 4 years ago!”) and global protests of his inauguration (“Watched protests yesterday but was under the impression that we just had an election! Why didn’t these people vote?”). And spending Monday and Tuesday telling congressional leaders that millions of people voted illegally in the November election, costing him the popular vote when only four documented cases of voter fraud exist and one was a woman who voted twice — for Trump.

Of course in many states, including New Mexico, there is no real check on legal voting. It’s largely an honor system absent voter ID — which should be required. But that’s a legitimate issue for another day.

Meanwhile, Trump needs to quit while he’s ahead, recognize that he won the presidency, and for the sake of a nation and a democratic system that has never been defined by the popularity of one individual, move the nation forward as he promised during his campaign. To date his important acts as president — canceling the Trans-Pacific Partnership on trade, opening up controversial but necessary oil pipelines and freezing federal hiring — have been overshadowed by acts less presidential and more like a kid lashing out because he was picked last for kickball.

For their part, after some violent protests on Friday, almost all of Trump’s protesters are respecting democracy by exercising their First Amendment rights and protesting peacefully. In Washington alone, more than 500,000 people rallied Saturday — and as night fell, not a single arrest was reported. There were more than 600 inauguration “sister protests” across the globe, an estimated 250,000 people in Chicago, well over 100,000 in New York, more than 100,000 on Boston Common, a similar number in Los Angeles, and crowds in Mexico City, Paris, Berlin, London, Prague and Sydney. Protesters also gathered in Albuquerque, Santa Fe and other towns across New Mexico.

That peaceful dissent is democracy in action as intended by the Founding Fathers.

Trump seemed to get that later Sunday, when he tweeted, belatedly, that “Peaceful protests are a hallmark of our democracy. Even if I don’t always agree, I recognize the rights of people to express their views.”

And the best way to change their views is through actions, not snarky words.

In the long run it matters little what Madonna or Cher or Ashley Judd or Whoopi Goldberg say about the president. Many simply find them offensive and vacuous. Ditto for the Saturday Night Live writer who trashed the president’s 10-year old son and the comedian Chelsea Handler, who dissed first lady Melania Trump as someone who can “barely speak English.” In fact, she speaks at least five languages.

But what does matter are the decisions and actions that come out of our White House — because, as first lady Jacqueline Kennedy once said, it is the people’s house.

Trump isn’t one to take advice but here is some anyway: focus on the business of the nation, and listen to the concerns of those protesters. Positive actions and positive changes regarding our economy, social fabric, national security and foreign relations will do much more for America and the American people — with the potential side benefit of making Trump more popular with his foes than a tweet ever could.
Copyright (c) 2017 Albuquerque Journal

