Fixing the vote -Proof of fraud should precede voter ID law 
December 15, 2016 | Northwest Arkansas Democrat-Gazette (AR) 
Author: NWA DEMOCRAT-GAZETTE 
Section: Editorial 
614 Words 
Page: 20 
OpenURL 
Link 
It takes an ID card before anyone can buy alcohol. 
To rent a car, someone's going to have to document his identity in addition to a way to pay for it. 
So, the theory goes, shouldn't it be fair to ask people to present some form of identification before they get to cast a vote in U.S., state and local elections? To hear some people (mostly Republicans) talk, every election brings an onslaught of illegal voters whose efforts to sway the election go unchecked because the whitehaired protective detail known as poll workers cannot demand some form of government ID. 
In Arkansas, voters no doubt recall being asked for their identification cards -primarily drivers' licenses but state law does not permit a voter to be turned away if he chooses not to produce one. In short, poll workers are required to ask for identification, but they are not authorized to demand it. If a person says no, they're allowed to vote anyway after verifying the voter registration details election workers have on file for them. 
Arkansas lawmakers -against a veto of then-Gov. Mike Beebe -approved a 2013 bill that required voter identification at the polls, but the state Supreme Court tossed it. The state Constitution sets out four criteria to be a voter: be at least 18 years old, be a U.S. citizen, be an Arkansas resident and be properly registered to cast a ballot. 
The state's highest court ruled against the law, saying it effectively added a fifth qualification. But state Rep. Mark Lowery, a Republican from Maumelle, says he's convinced the Legislature can add that qualification if the bill earns the backing of two-thirds of state lawmakers. 
If one believes the Republicans will vote en masse, that very well might happen in 2017's regular session of the General Assembly. The GOP, thanks to the defections of three Democrats since November's elections, hold 76 of the 100 seats in the House of Representatives and 26 of the 35 seats in the state Senate. 
Maybe the GOP already has the votes counted and this is a done deal, but lawmakers from a party that touts limited government and discourages over-regulation in people's lives ought to ask themselves this: Is this proposed law addressing a real problem, or just reinforcing a misguided movement to erect barriers to Americans casting their ballots? 
Car rentals? Buying alcohol? Sure, all sorts of commercial transactions require identification, but none of 
them are constitutionally guaranteed rights of citizenship. 
All supporters of stiffer voter identification requirements need to do to build a compelling case is to document the instances of individual voter fraud in Arkansas, if they exist. To require identification from every registered voter suggests there's a need to solve major abuses. If those cannot be documented, the GOP ought to resist the temptation to pass the law just because someone at the national office is pushing an agenda. 
Prove the need. It hasn't been shown at this point. Backers of voter ID laws so far have based their support on a bunch of what ifs. Here's one to consider: What if an American with every right to vote is denied the opportunity? That would be an egregious outcome if the barriers in the name of election integrity were never needed to protect the process to begin with. 
It's probably more important to figure out ways to prevent Russia from influencing U.S. elections than it is to fight the fictitious gaggle of unregistered or fraudulent voters showing up to cast ballots. Nobody has demonstrated a vast conspiracy, or even a series of disconnected individuals, at work trying to cast illegal votes. 
WHAT'S THE POINT? 
Lawmakers who want to create a voter identification card requirement for Arkansas residents should show clear evidence of fraud before erecting new barriers to voting. 
Copyright 2016, Northwest Arkansas Democrat-Gazette 
Citation (aglc Style) 
NWA DEMOCRAT-GAZETTE, 'Fixing the vote -Proof of fraud should precede voter ID law', Northwest Arkansas Democrat-Gazette (online), 15 Dec 2016 20 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1614ABB7473F0AA0 
