Anger,frustration,thenTrump -Sources of GOP's severe self-inflicted defeat remain 
October 15, 2016 | Northwest Arkansas Democrat-Gazette (AR) 
Author: Doug Thompson 
Section: Editorial 
756 Words 
Page: 16 
OpenURL 
Link 
Donald Trump's nomination sprang from conservative frustration and rage. Those two things are about to get much worse. 
Republicans haven't lost three presidential races in a row since 1948. Al Gore's run doesn't count. This year's will. 
For almost eight years, the GOP has portrayed the duly elected president as a usurper ruining the country single-handed. Some even believe it. Their anger at President Barack Obama is matched by their frustration at their own party's leaders, who can't completely nullify a president. So this year the angry rejected both their leaders and everyone else's. 
Nominating Donald Trump would "shake things up," the largest bloc of GOP voters decided. It did. He's rattled their election prospects to the ground. Now I wonder if the rage and frustration we've seen already will match what what we're about to see. 
Trump will lose badly to a woman his voters want to see in prison. "Lock her up" was the war chant of his nomination. His angry crowd looks at Hillary Clinton's freedom -much less her approaching election -as proof of the country's corruption and rival voters' stupidity. Her haters ignore how the rest of the country, as a whole, doesn't like Clinton much either. 
Most voters yearned for a qualified option to Clinton. Those who yearned included most Republicans. Yet the bitter-enders forced Trump on the rest of their party because he's angry, too. Fifteen better men and one better woman lost out. Then the GOP tried forcing Trump on the rest of us. Vote for the creep or you're a corrupt traitor and stupid, too. They wanted us all to swallow bitter medicine -not to make us "well" so much, but because it was bitter. 
When Trump loses, the angry and frustrated will blame both voters' "corrupt stupidity" and Trump's flaws. Yet those flaws always glared. The rest of us saw them long ago. That's because we were frustrated but not angry, at least not at the same things. 
The blame-passing won't stop at voters. The media's next -although it reported every Trump lie. "Biased" and "mainstream," it rang the alarm over and over. The inky wretches and microphone toters called out every outrage that should have ended Trump's bid months ago in the primary -should have, but didn't. Conservatives should worry much less about media bias and much more about whether the media has a point. And Fox News nationally, by the way, lives in a dream world. So does MSNBC for 
liberals. Most of the internet is a fantasy land, too. 
The frustrated will keep blaming their own leaders. The speaker of the U.S. House refused to attend a campaign rally with a man who bragged you could grope women and get away with it if you're famous. The speaker got booed while on a stage in his home state. 
Lots of scapegoats, but no good ones; As I've said before, the Republicans could have won this race by nominating a housebroken beagle. So they will lose knowing they should have won. They won't even get to blame voter fraud. The loss will be too severe. It may not be a landslide, though. Clinton is unpopular. Sexism is still a factor. So add 4 or 6 percentage points, I'll guess, to Clinton's winning margin. A "normal" candidate would drub Trump that much. 
Sen. Bernie Sanders might even have won. I'll always wonder, but the risk was too great to try. How many voters fear an honest socialist more than a lecherous, incompetent fascist? "[B]ut above all things he must keep his hands off the property of others, because men more quickly forget the death of their father than the loss of their patrimony," as Machiavelli warns "The Prince." 
Republicans drafted Dwight Eisenhower after their 1948 defeat. Ike -mild on the outside, tough within remains one of the most clearly qualified men to ever win the presidency. No one of such stature exists today. If he did, the frustrated and angry would call him a RINO -Republican in name only. They don't want to win. They want their enemies crushed. 
The angry want the country to suffer if they lose. They want any leader they don't choose to fail. They may get their wish. These sore losers have enough people in Congress. They only need 40. We've already seen that over six of the last eight years. 
So expect resentment and obstruction for another four years. No one would be happier or more surprised than me to be wrong. 
- v 
Doug Thompson is a political reporter and columnist for the Northwest Arkansas Democrat-Gazette. He can be reached by email at dthompson@nwadg.com. Follow him on Twitter @NWADoug. 
Copyright 2016, Northwest Arkansas Democrat-Gazette 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Doug Thompson, 'Anger,frustration,thenTrump -Sources of GOP's severe self-inflicted defeat remain', Northwest Arkansas Democrat-Gazette (online), 15 Oct 2016 16 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1600A265086C8A38 
