Dont make Trump supporters responsible for his actions 
October 26, 2016 | Arizona Daily Star, The (Tucson, AZ) 
Author: Victoria Steele Special to the Arizona Daily Star 
Section: Opinion 
485 Words 
Page: A13 
OpenURL 
Link 
I recently lost an election. I had expected to win the Democratic Partys nomination for Congress in Congressional District 2. I didnt, and dreams went out the window, months of hard work came to naught. I shed a tear and then called my opponent to congratulate him. I didnt have to think about it. 
I understand that losing a congressional race is not the same as coming in second for president, but civility knows no bounds. That Donald Trump will not make clear without ambiguity that he will behave as every losing presidential candidate, regardless of party, has done is enormously damaging to our democratic traditions. 
Concession is not weakness, as Trump apparently thinks. Its what almost all of us would do, and it is a bipartisan impulse. Our society depends on it. Otherwise hate, suspicion and anger linger and poison our trust in each other and our faith in our country. 
Thats why chills went down my spine as I watched a presidential nominee refuse to say that he would abide by the results of the election if he loses. He may get only 40 percent of the vote, but that is millions of people who are told and may believe they have been cheated by a rigged election and voter fraud. 
That does not breed reconciliation, but hate. It makes us one nation under a God of suspicion, separation and paranoia. Disappointment fades with time, but hatred festers and explodes. 
As a politician, I dont believe it serves any purpose. As a professional counselor, I absolutely know what damage it does to a person. In both roles, I know there are options to bring us together, not keep us apart. 
Understanding one another is a start. When people are challenged harshly, the first reaction is to hold even more tightly to their beliefs. If you need proof of this, think back to the last Trump supporter you argued with on Facebook. Chances are you didnt change his or her mind and you both felt worse for the effort. 
Some of Trumps supporters may be looking for a graceful way out. Give it to them. Give them the time and space. They are not likely to roll over and cheer your greater wisdom if it is accompanied by finger-pointing and standing in judgment over their past loyalties. Trump supporters have held tightly to their opinions for a long time, and its personal to them. They need time and the opportunity to find their own way out gracefully. Trumps falling numbers certainly suggest that this is happening to some, although certainly not all. 
But, unleashed suspicion and anger from a huge segment of the population that feels unheard and disrespected could cause an irreparable tear in the fabric of our society. 
The entire world looks up to the United States because we have a history of a peaceful transition of power. As Americans, we have a personal responsibility to do everything we possibly can to ensure that we continue to lead as a shining example of peace. 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Arizona Daily Star 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Victoria Steele; Special to the Arizona Daily Star, 'Dont make Trump supporters responsible for his actions', Arizona Daily Star, The (online), 26 Oct 2016 A13 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160431E2DD634120 
