AT THE MOVIES; CAPSULE REVIEWS | DOCUMENTARIES; Going for style over substance
Author: Myers, Kimber; Murray, Noel; Walsh, Katie; Goldstein, Gary
Publication info: Los Angeles Times ; Los Angeles, Calif. [Los Angeles, Calif]30 Sep 2016: E.11.
ProQuest document link
Abstract:
Palast interviews African American voters who have been blocked from the polls, either by being stricken from the registry or made to wait for hours to cast their ballots, and effectively exposes the ways the Interstate Crosscheck system fails to stop voter fraud and instead blocks valid voters from casting ballots.
Links:
Full Text Finder
Full text:
Buried somewhere amid the old-school journalist shtick, aggressive animation and overbearing jazz score in "The Best Democracy Money Can Buy," there's a solid documentary connecting the billionaire Koch brothers' cash to efforts to disenfranchise voters of color. But many viewers will find it challenging to see the substance hidden in the documentary's over-the-top style that makes Michael Moore's directorial stamp look subtle.
Fedora-and-suit-clad investigative reporter Greg Palast and his fellow director David Ambrose begin their story with the 2000 U.S. presidential election and work toward the 2016 race. Palast interviews African American voters who have been blocked from the polls, either by being stricken from the registry or made to wait for hours to cast their ballots, and effectively exposes the ways the Interstate Crosscheck system fails to stop voter fraud and instead blocks valid voters from casting ballots.
Palast and Ambrose enlist celebrities Rosario Dawson, Willie Nelson, Ice-T, Richard Belzer and Shailene Woodley, but like the rest of the documentary's clanging bells and tooting whistles, they vary in effectiveness, often distracting from the otherwise cogent argument.
-- Kimber Myers
"The Best Democracy Money Can Buy." Not rated. Running time: 1 hour, 54 minutes. Playing: Laemmle NoHo, North Hollywood.
--
Just the right tone in 'Danny'
Between 1965 and 1975, Danny Fields hung out with the Velvet Underground at Andy Warhol's Factory, caused a nationwide controversy by publicizing John Lennon's "bigger than Jesus" quote in a teen magazine, was the press agent for the Doors, signed the MC5 and the Stooges to Elektra Records and managed the Ramones.
Brendan Toller's superb documentary "Danny Says" is partly about the searing, serrated rock 'n' roll that surged underneath mainstream American pop in the '60s and '70s. But it's even more about how one man kept showing up just in time to see one countercultural phenomenon after another.
The main selling point of "Danny Says" is the archival material, which includes rare live footage of some of the most exciting bands in rock history, as well as 40-year-old audio tapes of Fields' conversations with Iggy Pop, Patti Smith, Nico and others.
Music buffs will want to see all these now-famous folks in their obscure early days. But they'll come away admiring a man they've barely heard of before.
A gay New Yorker with cutting-edge tastes and a world-weary air, Fields comes across in this film as opinionated but also stung by a career spent setting up other people for success. ("Everything took too long to happen, and I couldn't stick around," he groans.)
What emerges is a rich portrait of one of 20th Century pop culture's great facilitators, whose keen observations, quirky personality and natural affinity for the outre helped greatness happen.
-- Noel Murray
"Danny Says." Not rated. Running time: 1 hour, 44 minutes. Playing: Sundance Sunset Cinemas, West Hollywood.
--
The millennial 'Startup' culture
Directed by Cynthia Wade and Cheryl Miller Houser, the documentary "Generation Startup" puts a human face on millennial startup culture. The film depicts the program Venture for America, which supports entrepreneurship in recent college graduates in cities across the United States by placing fellows in startup companies.
"Generation Startup" focuses on a diverse group of fellows in Detroit, a city that is a symbol of both America's past and its potential for growth and revitalization. Dextina is a black female MIT grad in a predominantly white male industry; Labib, the son of Bangladeshi immigrants, struggles with his parents' lack of support; Kate searches for female mentors in the tech sector. Brian and Avery of Banza, a chickpea pasta company, strive to make their product the best it can be.
In many ways, "Generation Startup" is both too narrow and too broad to truly capture the notion of the "startup" in the zeitgeist. It's a warm, uplifting portrait of the potentials to be found in startup culture but feels blinkered by its specific focus.
-- Katie Walsh
"Generation Startup." Not rated. Running time: 1 hour, 33 minutes. Playing: Laemmle Monica Film Center, Santa Monica.
--
Celebration of underdog horse
Equine fans: Gallop, don't trot to Ron Davis' winning documentary "Harry & Snowman," which recounts the inspiring story of an underdog show horse, his tenacious trainer and their rise to fame in the late 1950s.
Dutch-born horseman Harry deLeyer immigrated to the United States after World War II and settled on Long Island, where he taught riding at a tony girls' academy. On a horse-buying trip for the school, Harry spent $80 on Snowman, an older plow horse slated for slaughter, then miraculously turned the compliant animal into a triple-crown champion of show jumping.
The movie enjoyably blends archival photos and footage, plus chats with 86-year-old Harry and other equine experts and observers, to track how Harry and his "Cinderella horse" took the competitive circuit by storm. That Snowman was also a "family horse" to Harry, wife Johanna and their eight kids provides much of the film's heart.
But interviews with a few of Harry's now middle-aged children reveal how their supportive-if-driven dad demanded as much from them as he did from his horses.
Meanwhile, Harry admits that after daughter Anne Marie's near-fatal 1977 riding accident, his wife insisted he give up horses. Harry refused, so she divorced him. That there's no further mention of the integral Johanna, who died in 2012, is the weak link in this otherwise captivating film.
-- Gary Goldstein
"Harry & Snowman." Not rated. Running time: 1 hour, 23 minutes. Playing: Laemmle Music Hall, Beverly Hills; Laemmle Playhouse 7, Pasadena.
--
A spotlight on 'Chuck Holmes'
The provocative documentary "Seed Money: The Chuck Holmes Story" spotlights the man who founded a gay porn empire in 1971 and then, in the AIDS-conscious 1980s and '90s, used his fortune to back gay rights groups and like-minded politicians. But did he do it out of social awareness or to buy respectability?
That's just one of the questions explored in Michael Stabile's nichey look at Holmes and his Falcon Studios, which strove to bring a sense of class -- such as it was -- to gay porn by shooting buff, clean-cut young guys in beautiful surroundings.
The brand, a reflection of Indiana-born Holmes' own sexual predilections, launched such iconic performers as Casey Donovan and Al Parker and proved a driving force in the industry until Holmes' death in 2000 from AIDS-related liver failure.
Using video clips from the Falcon vaults (softcore only); interviews with Holmes' colleagues and co-workers and other observers of the era; and period archival footage, Stabile paints an intriguing picture of the shrewd, enigmatic entrepreneur whose influential output provided legions of gay men with a safe sexual outlet, especially when the real thing became potentially deadly.
-- Gary Goldstein
"Seed Money: The Chuck Holmes Story." Not rated. Running time: 1 hour, 12 minutes. Playing: Laemmle Music Hall, Beverly Hills; also on VOD on Tuesday.
--
Planting poetry into farming
Farming may seem prosaic to the uninitiated, but "Seed: The Untold Story" reveals the poetry present in the practice through its smallest element.
Multiple people in the documentary compare seeds to jewels, both for their varied, colorful appearance as well as for their value. The film reveals the beauty present in the everyday, and a variety of stunning animation styles further illustrate the wonder of nature.
Directors Taggart Siegel and Jon Betz travel the world to tell their story, speaking with farmers, seed bankers, ethnobotanists and even Jane Goodall. They weave a tale of farming that begins centuries ago, sharing how the changes in industrial farming -- and particularly the growth of biotech companies like Monsanto and Dow -- are damaging disappearing cultures like the Hopi tribe and affecting the health of people around the globe.
One particular focus is the shrinking number of seed varieties and the challenges facing those who seek to save them for future generations through seed banks around the world. Though "Seed: The Untold Story" spends some of its short running time on the dangers of genetically modified foods, biotech giants and the growing lack of biodiversity, it's ultimately hopeful. This is a gorgeously made film, put together with as much care as its subjects devote to saving remaining varieties of seeds.
-- Kimber Myers
"Seed: The Untold Story." Not rated. Running time: 94 minutes. Playing: Laemmle Monica Film Center, Santa Monica.
Illustration
Caption: PHOTO: DANNY FIELDS, left, chats with Iggy Pop, Lisa Robinson and David Bowie in a scene from the revealing, behind-the-scenes rock documentary "Danny Says."; PHOTOGRAPHER:Leee Black Childers Danny Fields Archive / Magnolia
Subject: Startups; Documentary films; Presidential elections
Location: United States--US
Identifier / keyword: Movie review
Publication title: Los Angeles Times; Los Angeles, Calif.
Pages: E.11
Publication year: 2016
Publication date: Sep 30, 2016
Section: Calendar; Part E; Entertainment Desk
Publisher: Los Angeles Times Communications LLC
Place of publication: Los Angeles, Calif.
Country of publication: United States, Los Angeles, Calif.
Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN: 04583035
Source type: Newspapers
Language of publication: English
Document type: General Information
ProQuest document ID: 1824448646
Document URL: https://search.proquest.com/docview/1824448646?accountid=14472
Copyright: (Copyright (c) 2016 Los Angeles Times)
Last updated: 2017-11-23
Database: Global Newsstream
