MOVIE REVIEW; 'Rigged 2016' is third-party hype
Author: Walsh, Katie
Publication info: Los Angeles Times ; Los Angeles, Calif. [Los Angeles, Calif]01 Nov 2016: E.5.
ProQuest document link
Abstract:
"Rigged" hangs its arguments on impassioned personal anecdotes that have little to do with third-party candidates, and a truly grating Abe Lincoln impersonator who distills the state of the presidential race into insulting and sketchy pop-culture cartoons.
Links:
Full Text Finder
Full text:
Google "Rigged documentary" and you'll turn up many search results that aren't actually for "Rigged 2016," a nonfiction film directed by Bobby Sheehan being rushed into theaters a week before election day. Opening with footage from the first presidential debate in late September, the film is certainly attempting to capitalize on the election-season fervor, but it's essentially an hour-long campaign ad for Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson.
The doc starts from the question of whether third-party candidates should be allowed to participate in the presidential debates. However, it quickly spirals out of control, attempting to bring the Flint, Mich., water crisis, the 2008 housing market crash, healthcare, veterans affairs, Bernie Sanders and Black Lives Matter all under one umbrella with vague declarations of "the system is broken" and "voices need to be heard."
Those things might all be true, but "Rigged" doesn't demonstrate how Johnson or any third-party candidate might be able to ameliorate any of these issues. Even the title is misleading: there's no mention of voter fraud.
"Rigged" hangs its arguments on impassioned personal anecdotes that have little to do with third-party candidates, and a truly grating Abe Lincoln impersonator who distills the state of the presidential race into insulting and sketchy pop-culture cartoons.
The appeal to the middle class and working poor seems especially manipulative, and Johnson isn't in the film enough to make a captivating argument for himself. "Rigged" is just too little, too late for this election.
--
calendar@latimes.com
--
'Rigged 2016'
Unrated
Running time: 1 hour
Playing: Downtown Independent, Los Angeles
Illustration
Caption: PHOTO: AN INFANT in polluted Flint, Mich., is bathed using bottled water in the documentary "Rigged 2016."; PHOTOGRAPHER: Working Pictures
Subject: Presidential elections; Candidates; Third party; Election results
Identifier / keyword: Movie review
Publication title: Los Angeles Times; Los Angeles, Calif.
Pages: E.5
Publication year: 2016
Publication date: Nov 1, 2016
Section: Calendar; Part E; Entertainment Desk
Publisher: Los Angeles Times Communications LLC
Place of publication: Los Angeles, Calif.
Country of publication: United States, Los Angeles, Calif.
Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN: 04583035
Source type: Newspapers
Language of publication: English
Document type: General Information
ProQuest document ID: 1834167297
Document URL: https://search.proquest.com/docview/1834167297?accountid=14472
Copyright: (Copyright (c) 2016 Los Angeles Times)
Last updated: 2017-11-24
Database: Global Newsstream
