
Attitude toward press stinks
Newspaper January 29, 2017 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Author: Phil Kabler Section: Perspective 862 Words
Page: P7A
Attitude toward press stinks
Perhaps it's with a bit of undue paranoia, having watched the Donald Trump administration effectively declare war on the press, treating it not as the Fourth Estate, but as an opposition party, that I find the gag order imposed by the Jim Justice administration unsettling.

Over the past few days, reporters at the Gazette-Mail, and I presume at other media outlets, have been denied requests to interview new cabinet secretaries and department directors.

There was no official edict, but it was a matter of reporters discovering independently of one another that their requests for interviews were being turned down. In some instances, reporters were told they would need to wait until after Justice's State of the State address on Feb. 8.

I contacted Justice's communications director, Butch Antolini, an old-school newspaperman who was always straight-up with the media in his previous role as spokesman for former agriculture commissioner Walt Helmick.

Antolini said he had exactly five words for his on-the-record comment: "We want a unified message.

Justice is not the first governor to want to control dissemination of information.

About this time in Joe Manchin's first term as governor in 2005, the directive came down that all media inquiries for all state agencies had to go through gubernatorial spokeswoman Lara Ramsburg. Even for someone like Ramsburg, who was eminently competent and seemingly never needed rest, the policy proved overwhelming and impractical.

What's going unsaid with the current gag order is that, with the state facing a $500 million budget deficit, the cabinet secretaries and department heads are being given a media blackout to allow them not to undergo the normal task of familiarizing themselves with their departments, but to come up with ways to make significant personnel cuts - and not just in leaving vacancies unfilled as has been the case in recent years, but in laying off employees and consolidating positions.

We've seen initial evidence of what's coming with firings at the departments of Education and the Arts and Environmental Protection.

The cuts will be painful, and some will be controversial, but hindering the media's ability to cover those actions seems of little benefit to anyone.

nnn

Typifying what may be coming, when new Education and the Arts Secretary Gayle Manchin fired four people - or about a third of her central office staff - last week, the firings differed from Secretary of State Mac Warner's firing of a third of his staff in that she didn't fill most vacancies with new hires.

According to executive assistant Missy Phalen, the work of ex-chief financial officer Brent Sansom is being handled by CFOs in agencies under Education and the Arts, while positions held by Beth Hughes and Linda Brown will not be filled, with their responsibilities being assigned to others within the office.

Phalen replaced Tiffany Redman, special assistant to the secretary, and was given additional responsibilities in her new position.

Also, Phalen said former Deputy Secretary Martha McKee retired as of Dec. 31, and her position will not be filled.

nnn

Speaking of Warner, when he fired 16 long-time secretary of state employees on Jan. 16, the explanation offered to some media was that he was streamlining the office, a claim that proved to be an "alternate fact given his immediate hiring of 15 new, predominately white male employees at starting salaries comparable to what the long-time rank-and-file employees had been making.

Since then, big Mac has hired three additional employees, according to state employment accounting data: Eleanor Truman, program specialist, at a $35,000 salary; Dottie Underwood, field liaison, $35,000; and Anthony Jackson, business and licensing specialist, $30,000. Underwood had been a regional representative in the governor's office.

At any rate, Warner has now hired more employees than he fired in his supposed streamlining of the office.

nnn

Meanwhile, most observers dismissed President Trump's Captain Queeg-like demand for an investigation into supposed massive voter fraud as the rantings of a narcissist who cannot accept the fact he lost the popular vote by nearly three million votes - a delusion made all the more remarkable by Trump's assertion that all of the 3 million to 5 million illegal votes were cast for Hillary Clinton.

(U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., said there is no evidence of election fraud, and Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., went so far to say that making such allegations without evidence undermines the democratic process.).

However, Warner was there to heed the president's call to clamp down on purported election fraud, declaring in a release sent out by his crack communications team, "Mr. President, we hear you loud and clear.

Warner went on to say his office and county clerks need "financial and technical resources to be able to clean up voter registration rolls and (ominously in a new era of voter suppression) to "tighten up the voter registration process.

Had Warner not fired almost everyone in the Elections Division, he might have been apprised by staff that the secretary of state's office oversaw a statewide update of voter registration rolls in 2014, and since federal law requires cancellation of registration of voters who are inactive in two consecutive federal election cycles, the next sweep of voter registration rolls would not come up until after 2018.

Reach Phil Kabler at 304 348-1220, philk@wvgazettemail.com or follow @PhilKabler on Twitter.
Copyright, 2017, Charleston Newspapers
