
Hacking Russian intrusions
Newspaper October 24, 2016 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Author: Gzedit Section: Editorial 576 Words
Page: P4A
Hacking Russian intrusions
Why are furtive Russian hackers breaking into U.S. computer servers, especially government and political networks?

An analysis by Time magazine concludes that Russians cannot rig America's Nov. 8 election to put Republican Donald Trump into the White House, as some allege, but events of the past week raise new questions.

Most states do not allow voters to submit ballots online. U.S. election computers are isolated at hundreds of thousands of local places, not connected to the Internet. Breaching them all would be impossible.

Instead, Time asserts, Russia hopes to undermine Americans' confidence in their elections and cause people to distrust their own governmental systems.

"At the least, this effort is intended to sow doubt about the security of our election, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., and a fellow Congress member declared.

Citing national security experts, the Time article says a Russian attack during the election season is plausible. While the Russians cannot change the outcome of the election, they could, if Americans allow themselves to be rattled, create confusion and mistrust.

The goal of Russian sabotage "is about discrediting the entire idea of a free and fair election, one expert said. If it happens, Russian hackers might target voter registration databases, or disrupt internet service, or shut down media outlets, they said.

Reuters recently reported that voter registration data in 20 states had been targeted. Another possibility, the news agency said, was posting documents online, including falsified documents, to make it look like there is widespread voter fraud.

Then last week there was a sophisticated, three-phase attack on internet company Dyn, whose servers monitor and route internet traffic. The attack slowed and stopped traffic to a variety of major sites by users across the country, the New York Times reported.

No nation had been identified as responsible, but it looked like a large nation-state attack, the story said, and possibly intended to discover the company's weaknesses and ability to recover.

This kind of attack actually could keep some voters from submitting ballots. Thirty-one states and the District of Columbia allow overseas military and civilians to vote by internet. Alaska allows online balloting for any voter. This kind of attack could interfere with the outcome of an election, particularly where contests are close.

Oddly, Trump's claim that the election is being "rigged" against him serves the same purpose, helping the Russians in their goals. As his followers accept his word for it, they could contribute to the chaos desired by Russian hackers.

Nearly all responsible Republicans dispute Trump's claim. Sen. Shelley Capito, R-W.Va., told political reporter Andrew Brown:

"I do not think the system is rigged. There are a lot of volunteers, certainly in West Virginia, who are dedicated to seeing that we have fair, timely and well-accounted-for elections. I have total confidence in our election results. I reject that theory."

In the classic film, "Citizen Kane," a self-aggrandizing newspaper tycoon runs for U.S. Senate. His newspapers prepare two possible front pages for the morning after Election Day. The first blazons: "Kane Wins!" But on election night, as returns turn sour, his editors realize they must switch to the second page: "Fraud at Polls!"

That's what Donald Trump is doing as his popularity sinks.

But this is no movie. Trump's self-serving claims are demonstrably ridiculous. But as last week's attacks show, the nation has genuine enemies who would like to harm the United States and see American citizens spit on their traditions, essentially doing Vladimir Putin's work for him. We trust Americans will be smarter than that.
Copyright, 2016, Charleston Newspapers
