
VOTER FRAUD CLAIMS
Newspaper January 31, 2017 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Section: Opinion 405 Words
Page: P5A
VOTER FRAUD CLAIMS
Trump is following through on promises

President Donald Trump, in his first week of office, is well on his way to putting into effect his campaign promises.

He has begun by reviving two major pipeline projects which have been rejected by the Obama administration. They are the Keystone and the Dakota pipelines. Both of these projects were rejected to please Democratic opposition to the use of fossil fuels.

Many Republicans have questioned the new president's conservative credentials. While most of his cabinet appointees have not been approved, all of those chosen do have conservative and mostly business backgrounds and are expected to be confirmed by the U.S. Senate.

Although gone from office, President Barack Obama still imposed his will on the people through executive orders. He issued stringent new orders on the automotive industry by mandating increased miles per gallon on new automobiles as well as new safety mandates.

According to House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, during Obama's final year, the Federal Register hit 97,110 pages, more than 18,000 over the 2008 number.

"Federal regulations cost the American people roughly $15,000 per household according to the Competitive Enterprise Institute and according to the American Action Forum nearly five hours of additional paperwork is required of every full time American employee.

The House will soon begin repealing specific regulations using the Congressional Review Act which allows a majority of the House and Senate to overturn any rules finalized in the past 60 days.

According to McCarthy "no aspect of America's economy has been as over-regulated as energy. So the House will repeal the Stream Protection Act which could destroy thousands of coal jobs and put 64 percent of American coal reserves off limits according to the National Mining Association.

Obama moved at the 11th hour to limit the oil and gas industry through a new methane regulation. It could cost up to $1 billion, according to the American Petroleum Association. The additional regulation would force small struggling oil and gas operators to close shop.

According to McCarthy, "With President Trump's signature every one of these regulations will be overturned. In the weeks to come the House and Senate will use the Congressional Review Act to kill as many job-killing and ill conceived regulations as possible.

This is how to protect American workers and businesses and defend the Constitution and turn words into action.

Frank Deem

Vienna

Deem is a Republican delegate from Wood County.
Copyright, 2017, Charleston Newspapers
