Voting - Legislators could change election laws after voter fraud claims - Legislators are expected to revisit election laws this year in the wake of voter fraud allegations made by Gov. Pat McCrory's campaign after the November election.
Newspaper January 22, 2017 | Charlotte Observer, The (NC)
Author: Colin Campbell Section: News 251 Words
Page: 14A
Voting - Legislators could change election laws after voter fraud claims - Legislators are expected to revisit election laws this year in the wake of voter fraud allegations made by Gov. Pat McCrory's campaign after the November election.
RALEIGH Legislators are expected to revisit election laws this year in the wake of voter-fraud allegations made by former Gov. Pat McCrory's campaign after the November election.

McCrory's campaign and Republican allies filed protests about voters who they suspected were either dead, serving felony sentences or voted more than once. They also challenged community groups funded by the N.C. Democratic Party that assisted voters with casting absentee ballots.

The State Board of Elections threw out the protests, saying they didn't follow the proper protocol for contesting a voter's eligibility. While some people were wrongly accused, an elections board official searched a database and found 339 voters who appeared to be serving an active felony sentence.

"It's going to be incumbent on both parties to find some solutions to very difficult issues that have come out," N.C. Republican Party executive director Dallas Woodhouse said as the post-election process wrapped up.

Republicans have made it clear they want to ban people from voting outside their assigned polling place, end same-day registration during early voting, and limit early-voting hours.

But they'll have to make sure whatever changes they propose can pass legal muster: Many of the changes Republicans want were part of North Carolina's voter ID law that was struck down by a federal court last year. The GOP is still hopeful that the U.S. Supreme Court will overturn the ruling and reinstate the law.

Colin Campbell: 919-829-4698, @RaleighReporter

Republicans want to ban people from voting outside their assigned polling place and limit early-voting hours.
Copyright (c) 2017 The Charlotte Observer

