Slowly but surely, improving Colorado's election laws 
November 16, 2016 | Denver Post, The (CO) 
Author: Megan Schrader Megan Schrader, The Denver Post 
Section: OPINION 
580 Words 
Page: 17A 
OpenURL 
Link 
Coloradans love meddling with election law. 
This year we said the state's 1 million unaffiliated voters should be able to participate in primary elections, and that when it comes to presidential races there should be an actual primary election with ballots. 
I hope the changes will mean more moderate candidates and increased voter participation, but I've been heartbroken by reform efforts before. 
I turned 18 in 2002 just in time to vote for a massive campaign finance reform effort, Amendment 27, which won by a significant margin and promised to take big money out of politics. It was the same year as the McCain-Feingold Act at the federal level and I remember thinking both were wonderful ideas. 
That's almost laughable 14 years later, following an election where $79 million was spent on state-and county-level campaigns in the four months leading up to Election Day. Much of the money is funneled through shell organizations with hidden or shadowy donors and operators. 
My memory is a bit hazy from my senior year in high school, but I'm pretty sure I wasn't with the 15 percent of Mesa County voters who supported Democrat Rollie Heath for governor (sorry, Sen. Heath). 
I remember vehemently opposing a proposed anti-immigration amendment that would have outlawed teaching in Spanish (thanks, Tom Tancredo). 
And I vaguely remember tackling two other amendments on my high school newspaper that same year: one would have allowed same-day voter registration and the other would have mandated all-mail ballot elections. 
Both failed. 
It took just over a decade for those reforms to come to fruition. In 2013, Democrats implemented both in House Bill 1303 over the strong filibuster-like objections of Republicans. We just held our first presidential election under the laws, and none of the worst-case voter-fraud scenarios have occurred. 
But experts say those reforms aren't likely to have a big impact on voter participation. They also say open primaries won't create more moderate governments. 
According to a 2014 study of polarization in state government --conducted by University of Houston professor Boris Shor --Colorado is the second most polarized legislature in the country. Only California suffers more party-line votes than Colorado. 
As University of Denver political science professor Seth Masket put it, many campaign finance and election reforms do have impacts, but "it sometimes actually will do the opposite of what is intended." 
Masket explores the failures of tinkering with election law in his book "The Inevitable Party: Why Attempts to Kill the Party System Fail and How they Weaken Democracy." His case studies include California, where voters now get a primary ballot with every candidate from every party on it and select the top two. And while it's early, Masket says there hasn't been the mass election of significantly more moderate candidates. 
But Colorado is doing some things right, proving that trying to make change can work. 
Judd Choate, director of elections in Colorado, points out that we are jockeying, as we do every year, for the state with the best voter turnout. We are currently in sixth place, with roughly 69 percent of eligible voters (not just registered voters) submitting ballots in Colorado. 
That's good news. Choate says there are many factors driving high turnout in Colorado. But one key is the switch in the '90s to allow absentee ballots without an excuse and then to allow permanent absentee ballot status. 
These reforms are not without issue, but we are capable of working out these glitches. Keep meddling, Colorado, keep meddling. 
Megan Schrader (mschrader@denverpost.com) is a Denver Post editorial writer and columnist. 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Denver Post Corp. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Megan Schrader; Megan Schrader, The Denver Post, 'Slowly but surely, improving Colorado's election laws', Denver Post, The (online), 16 Nov 2016 17A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160C03A887B298A8 
