Make voter registration automatic 
September 25, 2016 | Denver Post, The (CO) 
Author: Diane Carman Diane Carman 
Section: PERSPECT 
668 Words 
Page: 3D 
OpenURL 
Link 
If a couple ballot measures pass on Nov. 8, Colorado could move a bit closer to the goal of becoming an actual democracy, 140 years after it achieved statehood. 
Propositions 107 and 108 would restore the presidential primary election to the state and allow all registered voters, including those who are unaffiliated, to participate. 
So, if these measures pass, in 2020 Coloradans won't have to depend on folks in places like Iowa and New Hampshire to select presidential candidates. 
It's a step in the right direction, but there's still a long way to go. 
Why, in 2016, with all our whiz-bang technology, is it still so hard to vote? 
(Let's pause here while we contemplate the obvious cynical reasons.) 
It doesn't have to be. 
Several states are taking a big step toward reducing barriers to participation by making voter registration automatic. It's beyond simple. 
When citizens have interacted with state government by applying for a driver's license or some other state service, upon turning 18 they will be notified that, unless they opt out, they will be registered to vote. 
Oregon was the first state to enact automatic voter registration. The governor signed the bill last year; the system was created in a matter of months; and the state of about 4 million people expects to register more than 200,000 new voters by November. 
In the meantime, Connecticut, Vermont, California and West Virginia also have made voter registration automatic, and similar measures are under consideration in about 20 other states. Colorado is not one of them. 
Here, the secretary of state's office provides forms for registering to vote and in the weeks before every election, advocacy groups of all persuasions can be found on college campuses and downtown streets working to register voters in an attempt to improve targeted turnouts. Then the data must be entered into the state system, often at the last minute, and interest groups mobilize to challenge the tactics and results, hoping to disqualify voters and influence election outcomes. 
It's a sloppy operation for something so important, and there's no excuse for it. 
Worldwide, automatic voter registration is nothing new. In countries such as Canada, Australia, Germany, France, Sweden, Argentina, Peru and Belgium, where it is a longstanding practice, more than 90 percent of eligible voters are registered compared to 68 percent in the U.S. 
At a time when the country supposedly is in the throes of a resurgence of populism, where ordinary voters from both parties are sick of sold-out politicians and billionaires rigging the system, expanding access to the vote should be a no-brainer. 
And the bogus charge that it would encourage voter fraud, as suggested by Illinois' Republican Gov. Bruce Rauner when he vetoed a popular bill for automatic voter registration there, is laughable. The whole voter fraud boogieman is just another con job designed to keep the election process in the hands of the elites. 
A comprehensive analysis of voter fraud between 2000 and 2014 by Professor Justin Levitt of Loyola Law School found only 31 potentially credible incidents across the country in elections where more than a billion ballots were cast. The incidents were not confirmed, mind you, merely alleged. It's a non-issue. 
Meanwhile, millions of voters are sidelined. 
At 87 percent, Colorado ranked No. 1 in the country in the percentage of voters who were registered in 2014, which is unquestionably a good thing. Eagerness to vote on the marijuana legalization initiative in 2012 surely had something to do with it. 
But maintaining and improving those numbers would be easy with automatic registration. After all, Oregon is shooting for closer to 100 percent. 
Engaging all Coloradans in issues such as the high cost of college, social equality, clean air and water, and how oil and gas is developed in our neighborhoods is exactly what the populist resurgence demands. 
And all those political operatives who sow fear about a system where people of all races and political ideologies are empowered to vote should have to accept reality at long last. 
That is what democracy really looks like. 
Diane Carman is a Denver communications consultant. Her column appears monthly. 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Denver Post Corp. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Diane Carman; Diane Carman, 'Make voter registration automatic', Denver Post, The (online), 25 Sep 2016 3D http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15FADCE3C3DBABC0 
