EDITORIAL -Elections -Not Perfect -But Honest 
October 23, 2016 | Hartford Courant, The (CT) 
Section: Opinion 
315 Words 
Page: 2C 
OpenURL 
Link 
We've had our complaints about Connecticut's elections system. It's slow to gather results. Registrars can sometimes be inept. But the system is honest, with rare exceptions. 
To suggest, as Donald Trump does, that the Nov. 8 election is being rigged in "many polling places" is false, dangerous, borderline looney and more evidence that he's unfit for public service. 
Even the WikiLeaks-hacked emails haven't hinted at such a conspiracy among local election officials or "big media," another favorite Trump target. 
If anything, ineptitude is the most common problem on Election Day in Connecticut. A handful of Hartford's polling places didn't open on time in 2014. In 2010, Bridgeport ran out of ballots. 
Also, it takes too long in many towns and cities to learn who won a race. Connecticut is among the slowest states in the nation to gather election results. The secretary of state's office has promised faster results this year. 
Though election fraud is rare here, it's not unknown. Former Bridgeport state Rep. Christina Ayala pleaded guilty last year to election law violations for voting in districts she didn't live in. Her mother, Bridgeport Democratic Registrars of Voters Santa Ayala, was never charged, although the State Elections Enforcement Commission recommended she be. Absentee ballot chicanery has also gotten the city in trouble. It's no wonder Gov. Dannel P. Malloy asked the secretary of the state to send election observers to Bridgeport last November. 
But Mr. Trump's suggestion of widespread fraud is ludicrous because that would involve widespread collusion among voters and elections officials. 
He harms the nation's reputation as a beacon of democracy with his allegation that "voter fraud is all too common." No, it's not common, Ms. Ayala notwithstanding. There are irregularities: A UConn journalism class in 2008 turned up 8,500 dead people registered to vote. But no actual fraud was found. Those were clerical mistakes. 
Mr. Trump's paranoid rantings undermine the overwhelming integrity of U.S. elections. 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Hartford Courant Co. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'EDITORIAL Elections Not Perfect But Honest', Hartford Courant, The (online), 23 Oct 2016 2C http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160322F39B7BACD0 
