Trump Tweets Decrees Like King Of America 
December 1, 2016 | Hartford Courant, The (CT) Author: Frank Harris 
Section: Opinion 
667 Words Page: 15A 
OpenURL 
Link 
Clearly, winning the presidency is not enough. Donald wants a crown. Donald wants to be king of America. King Donald with a crown sits on his Trumpian throne in Manhattan and tweets decrees about this and 
decrees about that as the country scurries to decipher what he truly means. Is he serious? Is he crazy like a fox or just plain crazy? He tweeted about flag burning and stripping citizenship from those who light such a fire to the red, white 
and blue. Now, granted, the Supreme Court ruled that flag burning was a form of protected speech in the 1989 Texas v. Johnson case. It was a 5-4 decision supported even by the late conservative Justice Antonin 
Scalia, who said in Philadelphia a year ago that if it were up to him, he would jail those who burned the flag, before concluding: "But I am not king." Trump, as president, could make a conservative Supreme Court appointment to replace Scalia, but he 
would still be dependent on the court. As King Donald, he could have his own court of family members and just tweet his decree. It would just be one more notch on his crown to make the American people his royal subjects -subject to 
restrictions on our freedom. "So don't burn a flag and you'll be fine," the King's jesters say. "I have never burned a flag," I say. "It's not something I have ever had a desire to do. But I believe it is a 
symbol of free speech and people should have a right to burn it. "If King Donald has his way, what rights would be next? Those who don't stand for the flag? Those who 
don't place their hand on their heart? Those who don't sing along with the anthem? Those who sing out of key? Or those who don't honor it with a Nazi salute?" The jesters' eyes go down to their smartphones. 
"King Donald has tweeted," they announce. "You have offended the king bigly. We must take you away!" "Where?" I ask. "To the swamp!" "I thought it was drained." The jesters laugh loud and hearty. They're still laughing when we reach the swamp. They laugh so hard 
that they roll in and sink. I make my escape. But because I'm a professor and a journalist, I'm curious. I look around the swamp. 
There is truth, sunk like a rock; justice, truly unbalanced; integrity, tied in knots; freedom, locked in chains that only the king can undo. There is a place in that swamp for everyone who ever uttered or wrote an unkind word about King 
Donald. Truth was not a defense. The cast of "Hamilton" is being dragged to the swamp as I stand there. "They did not really treat the vice president badly," I call out. "They asked for fairness." "Fairness is in the eyes of the king," say the other jesters. "As is truth," I utter. King Donald tweeted that he had a landslide victory and proclaimed voter fraud that prevented him from 
winning the popular vote. The truth is lost in the glimmering crown. Journalists who use his own words to question him are called liars. Donald with a crown would mean 
journalists should write only good things about our highness. At a rally in Fort Worth earlier this year, he said the media "is one of the most dishonest groups of people I've ever met." He said one of the things he would do as president would be to open up libel laws so that 
when journalists write "purposely negative and horrible and false articles," he can sue them and win lots of money. "With me, they're not protected," he said. Under his truth, no one is protected. 
The only speech allowed will be praises and flattery for the king. 
"Aw gee, you are a great king, Donald," I feign. 
"Call me 'King Donald the Great,' " he tweets. 
Journalists are our first line of defense against kings in a democracy. 
Journalists -and citizens who value their freedom. 
Frank Harris III of Hamden is a professor of journalism at Southern Connecticut State University in New Haven. His email address is frankharristhree@gmail.com. Follow him on Twitter at fh3franktalk. 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Hartford Courant Co. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Frank Harris, 'Trump Tweets Decrees Like King Of America', Hartford Courant, The (online), 1 Dec 2016 15A http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160FFF9B2100B718 
