op-ed -Claims Of Voter Fraud Misplaced 
January 29, 2017 | Hartford Courant, The (CT) 
Author: DENISE MERRILL 
Section: Opinion 
681 Words 
Page: 3C 
OpenURL 
Link 
Excuse me if I take the suggestion that our democracy is a sham a little personally. 
I'm referring, of course, to the recent suggestion by President Donald Trump that 3 to 5 million votes were cast illegally in 2016's presidential election. 
Whatever my feelings about the results, I was quite pleased with the process in Connecticut and felt our free and fair vote gave us reason to be proud of elections in our state. 
We had a record number of registered voters and ballots cast. Although it was not flawless, Connecticut's election officials did a marvelous job rolling out modernizations like Election Day registration, online voter registration and other conveniences for the first time in a presidential year. 
So why would our president claim that 3 million to 5 million people voted illegally? 
Every year, officials carry out canvasses, compare lists with other states, conduct voter outreach and other activities to make sure our rolls are up to date. When complaints are brought, the State Elections Enforcement Commission conducts an investigation and, if verified, people are punished. 
I believe in our democracy. 
Here are three reasons why I think the president's executive order to investigate the election, based on non-existent data, is damaging. 
1. Been there, done that. 
The federal government did a similar investigation under President George W. Bush. A five-year probe that ended in 2007 uncovered no organized effort to steal elections. The handful of cases that were identified revealed human error and a few criminal cases, not a widespread effort to cast illegal ballots or register ineligible people. 
That is consistent with the reams of academic research showing that in-person voter fraud is extremely rare. 
There is no reason to spend millions of taxpayer dollars on another fishing expedition in what appears to be a barren pond. Normally we do not call 911 and hope that a crime has occurred. We should put the facts before action. 
2. More cynicism? 
In an era when the restraints have been pulled off of campaign financing and the entire election is a bloodbath of low-blow character attacks, can the voters be blamed for being cynical? When the depth of a donor's pocket can do more for a campaign than the depth of the public's support, can we blame people for feeling like their voices are barely heard? 
I understand the cynicism. People have a right to be jaded. But their votes count. Their voices are heard. 
Yet, when -after the fact -the winner of an election claims that the entire process is a sham, the real loser is our democracy. Attacking the legitimacy of elections, without any evidence of wrongdoing, potentially undermines the public's faith in a free and fair vote, which is the foundation of our democracy. 
If there were evidence, the states would investigate and punish anyone who is convicted of wrongdoing. But there isn't any evidence. 
3. Facts still matter. 
Every secretary of state that I know takes this seriously. Allegations of wrongdoing are investigated and prosecuted when proven. Administering elections is a sacred trust that we take seriously. 
The issue of voter fraud has been studied repeatedly by academic institutions and other bipartisan organizations and nothing has been found to support these claims. Certainly not to the scale of 3 to 5 million votes. 
I am in regular contact with colleagues across the aisle and each of us have different views of this threatened action. As far as I can tell, most are wary. 
Speaking for myself, I have fears that there is an agenda at work. Will this lead to proposals that will make it more difficult for certain people to register and vote? Does it signal a federal effort to intervene in elections, which are run by states? Will the investigation be limited to jurisdictions where the president lost? Can we expect efforts to purge voter rolls of people suddenly deemed suspect without any evidence that these voters are ineligible? 
I don't know. 
Whether I am right or not, I still think this action is damaging and unnecessary. Our democracy is the most transparent in the world and we should be proud of that. Carrying out investigations without 
evidence and claiming that the election results were a sham is horribly irresponsible. 
Denise Merrill is the secretary of the state of Connecticut. 
Copyright (c) 2017 The Hartford Courant Co. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
DENISE MERRILL, 'op-ed Claims Of Voter Fraud Misplaced', Hartford Courant, The (online), 29 Jan 2017 3C http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/162372C6D13ADBB0 
