

NO, DON, YOU'RE 'FRAUD' - Trump on a Twitter tirade - Voting 'absolutely rigged' - No basis for insance claim
Newspaper October 18, 2016 | New York Daily News (NY)
Author: CAMERON JOSEPH WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF Section: NEWS 610 Words
Page: 10
NO, DON, YOU'RE 'FRAUD' - Trump on a Twitter tirade - Voting 'absolutely rigged' - No basis for insance claim
WASHINGTON - There were only 31 cases of in-person voter fraud out of a billion votes cast since 2000 - but Donald Trump thinks GOP leaders are "naive" when they say not to worry about election-rigging.

The GOP nominee took to Twitter on Monday to blast the leaders of his own party for their pushing back against his repeated claims that the election is going to be "rigged" against him, claiming without evidence there is "large scale voter fraud happening" right now.

"Of course there is large scale voter fraud happening on and before election day. Why do Republican leaders deny what is going on? So naive!" he tweeted Monday morning, the latest salvo in an ongoing Twitter war with Democrats, leaders in his own party, and reality.

But a recent Loyola Law School study found that from 2000 through 2014, only 31 known cases of voter impersonation occurred, not even enough to swing most PTA elections.

That translates roughly to a one in 32,258,064 chance of voter fraud. To put that in perspective, you're three times more likely to get struck by lightning twice in your lifetime or three times as likely to be eaten by a shark than to commit in-person voter fraud.

Trump has been increasingly warning about a "rigged" election as his poll numbers have crashed in recent weeks, with zero evidence that this is actually happening.

He's hit that theme throughout the campaign whenever things start to go wrong for him.

But in recent days, as it's become more obvious that he's falling behind Hillary Clinton in the polls following multiple accusations that he's sexually molested and assaulted women, Trump has leaned harder into a conspiracy theory that the media are against him, and local officials are tampering with actual ballots.

"The election is absolutely being rigged by the dishonest and distorted media pushing Crooked Hillary - but also at many polling places - SAD," he tweeted Sunday.

He returned to that theme Monday morning.

"WikiLeaks proves even the Clinton campaign knew Crooked mishandled classified info, but no one gets charged? RIGGED!" he declared.

"Voter fraud! Crooked Hillary Clinton even got the questions to a debate, and nobody says a word. Can you imagine if I got the questions?" he said hours later.

Those attacks have politicians in both parties increasingly panicked that his attempt to discredit the democratic process is eroding Americans' trust in free and fair elections, and could lead to violence after the vote on Nov. 8.

House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and the Ohio and Colorado secretaries of state were two of many Republicans who pushed back against those paranoid conspiracy theories in recent days, though their party supports voter ID laws that suppress turnout by minorities, students and other key Democratic groups using the same false paranoia about voter fraud.

"Donald Trump has been tweeting about elections being rigged, but he offers no evidence of such," said Lynn Bartels, a spokeswoman for Colorado's GOP secretary of state. "I can say on Twitter I'm a supermodel but that doesn't make it so."

Even some of Trump's closest supporters fired back against the claim.

"He's never talked about cheating at the polling place," former Mayor Rudy Giuliani claimed Sunday.

"Absent evidence of wrongdoing, of irregularities and voter fraud, of course we'll accept it," campaign manager Kellyanne Conway said on MSNBC Monday evening about the results of the election.

Clinton's campaign pushed back against the ludicrous claims as well.

"He is desperately trying to shift attention from his own disastrous campaign," Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook said in a Monday conference call. "He knows he's losing and he's trying to blame that on the system. This is what losers do."
Copyright, 2016 Daily News L.P. All Rights Reserved.
