
A soft-on-crime President
Newspaper January 25, 2017 | New York Daily News (NY)
Author: NLVL Section: EDITORIAL 453 Words
EDITORIAL Page: 24
A soft-on-crime President
Our new President, who promises to bring law and order to a nation he claims is in desperate need of it, says a crime spree distorted American democracy in November.

He can do something about it - that is, if he isn't all talk and no action, to borrow the smear he readily applies to other politicians.

Upping the ante on a claim he made last year, President Trump now insists that a massive 3 million to 5 million undocumented immigrants cast ballots in the presidential election. (The old number he made up was 2 million to 3 million.)

This is, it's important to say, an assertion utterly unsupported by evidence. We old-fashioned types call it a lie.

A group of 11,000 election watchers that included ProPublica, USA Today Network and Google News Lab found "no evidence that millions of people voted illegally."

In fact, the only people arrested for illegal voting last fall were - you guessed it - two Trump supporters, in Texas and Iowa.

But Trump is so sure that undocumented immigrants rushed to the polls and cast ballots in droves that Monday night he told members of Congress that this mass of illegal votes was responsible for him losing the popular vote by what is a historic margin for an Electoral College winner.

Asked what on Earth his boss was talking about, press secretary Sean Spicer Tuesday seconded the insanity and said Trump came to his conclusion "based on studies and evidence that people have presented to him."

But there are no studies to support the lie. There is no evidence. As for a 2008 Pew Research study Spicer sloppily cited, it only establishes that deceased people clutter voter rolls that need to be cleaned up - not that any of them cast ballots.

Oops.

So, will the President order his administration to investigate the President's stunning and consequential allegations he made? "Maybe he will," said Spicer.

Not good enough; he's duty-bound to follow through.

We point Spicer, and Trump, and his soon-to-be-confirmed Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who himself has a sordid history of prosecuting people for voting, to 18 U.S. Code, Section 611.

"It shall be unlawful for any alien to vote in any election held solely or in part for the purpose of electing a candidate for the office of President, Vice President . . ." You get the idea.

"Any person who violates this section shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than one year, or both."

Mr. President: Your Justice Department is responsible for enforcing federal laws. You have said we must enforce the laws or "we won't even have a country." You have also said that your efforts to rid the United States of undesirable undocumented immigrants will target criminals first and foremost.

Consider your voter-fraud bluff officially called.
Copyright, 2017 Daily News L.P. All Rights Reserved.
