
Questions for Sessions
Newspaper November 20, 2016 | New York Daily News (NY)
Author: NLVL Section: EDITORIAL 508 Words
EDITORIAL Page: 36
Questions for Sessions
The United States is in the throes of a necessary reckoning with disparities throughout its criminal justice system: in the use of force by police officers, often against unarmed black men; in prosecutions; in sentencing.

This is a delicate task for any attorney general, charged also with overseeing the Department of Justice and enforcing the laws to drive down crime and prevent domestic terrorism.

For Sen. Jeff Sessions, President-Elect Donald Trump's choice as the nation's top law enforcement officer, the job may prove especially difficult.

That's because Sessions, though a competent prosecutor and senator, has a documented history of turning a deaf ear to equal-justice concerns, and to speaking about race with what can charitably be called a tin ear.

Trump ran as a self-styled law-and-order candidate. Ignoring that rates of violent lawbreaking remain near historic lows, he conjured up images of a nation under siege by violence, with inner cities worse than war zones.

Meantime, he belittled the Black Lives Matter movement - sparked by a wave of wrenching videos showing black men killed by police - and hinted he would direct his eventual AG to investigate the organizations responsible.

Trump also called for expanding to many cities widespread use of stop-and-frisk, even though a federal court had declared it unconstitutional as applied in New York.

In Sessions, Trump seems to believe he has found a kindred spirit, who sees restoring lost law and order as a priority in conflict with correcting flaws in the criminal justice system.

The Sessions record is checkered. In 1986, the then-federal prosecutor became only the second individual in 50 years to have his nomination to the federal judiciary rejected after the Republican-led panel heard credible testimony that he had used racially charged language, praised the KKK (saying it "was O.K. until I found out they smoked pot") and referred to the ACLU and NAACP as "un-American."

We do not suggest Sessions holds to these beliefs today, but the questions must be put to him.

And even as many of his fellow GOPers moved toward bipartisan consensus on criminal-justice reform, Sessions is an outlier. He opposed President Obama's commuting the sentences of low-level drug offenders - claiming that a slight rise in crime in some major cities is reason enough to hold off on offender release.

These views are important because of the wide discretion an attorney general wields, including through its Civil Rights Division, which has a strong history of pursuing cases to help guarantee all citizens equal protection under the law.

Of related concern: Sessions' approach to voting rights - where, since a neutering of the Voting Rights Act by the U.S. Supreme Court, the attorney general has especially wide latitude.

As a prosecutor in the 1980s, Sessions charged black Alabama residents with voter fraud for mailing in the absentee ballots of elderly residents. A jury returned a not-guilty verdict in three hours.

Since, he has shown little if any concern for a wave of restrictions that have made it harder for blacks to vote across the country, including in his own state of Alabama.

A President gets wide latitude in selecting his team. Still, Sessions has earned an uncompromising cross-examination.
Copyright, 2016 Daily News L.P. All Rights Reserved.
