 
        EDITORIAL: Trump's baseless voter fraud claims could weaken his
presidency Dallas Morning News, The (TX). 11/29/2016.   



EDITORIAL: Trump's baseless voter fraud claims could weaken his
presidency


Nov. 29--When you tell a whopper, it undermines the truth needed to
govern.

That's what President-elect Donald Trump has done by claiming to have
won the popular vote after discounting "the millions of people who voted
illegally." Trump offered no evidence of voter fraud, and by so baldly
staking a demonstrably false claim, he risks damaging the integrity of
the very representative democracy that just elected him president.

The latest firestorm erupted after Green Party presidential candidate
Jill Stein called for a recount of the Nov. 8 popular vote in Wisconsin
and other key Midwestern states. Supporters of Hillary Clinton -- who
hasn't challenged the election outcome -- joined the recount chorus.

Nobody credible is asserting that a recount will change the election
outcome. The margins in the states to be recounted aren't expected to
alter Trump's tally in the Electoral College. He is hardly the first
president to lose the popular vote and win the Electoral College. It's
happened four other times, the most recent being George W. Bush in 2000.

The purpose of the recount is to assure a fair and accurate election
process. Still, Trump couldn't resist unleashing a Twitter tirade that
referenced "millions of people who voted illegally" and called into
question the integrity of the vote count in California, New Hampshire
and Virginia -- all states that Clinton won by larger margins and aren't
being recounted.

The fact is that Clinton won the popular vote by some
as-yet-undetermined margin in the millions and that Trump overwhelmingly
claimed the electoral count. As a result, Trump will be the next
occupant of the White House. Seeking greater clarity about the former
doesn't undermine the latter.

Sadly, Trump again has let his ego and impulsive fingers perpetuate a
blatant untruth, which some suggest might have originated with a fake
news story and tweet.

Trump is entitled to his opinions, but, as the saying goes, he's not
entitled to his own facts. For him to suggest that millions of votes
were stolen without evidence recklessly assaults the integrity of voters
and adds to mounting national cynicism. With his baseless claim, the
president-elect is essentially suggesting that all results, including
his own win, should not be trusted.

The loss of legitimacy is the kiss of death to any presidency.

The legitimacy of elections is the backbone of the peaceful transition
of power and authority to govern. Trump should be able to operate from a
position of strength; this recount holds no threat to him. He should let
the recount mechanism work as it is a right under the law.

Voters have spoken. Donald Trump is president-elect. He needs to devote
his full energies to putting together a leadership team that can hit the
ground running in January.

Leave the recount issues to the campaign staff and get on with the
process of being the next president.

Trump's baseless voter fraud claims

"I don't know what he was talking about on that one."

-- Sen. James Lankford, R-Okla., responding Monday to Trump's fraud
claims, adding that he had "not seen any voter irregularity in the
millions"

"It appears that Mr. Trump is troubled by the fact that a growing
majority of Americans did not vote for him. His unsubstantiated
allegations of voter fraud in California and elsewhere are absurd. His
reckless tweets are inappropriate and unbecoming of a President-elect."

-- Alex Padilla, California secretary of state, a Democrat

"There's been no evidence produced of millions -- or thousands or even
hundreds -- of noncitizens voting for president in 2016."

-- Rick Hasen, professor of law and politics who writes for the Election
Law Blog, in a tweet

