
        EDITORIAL: President Trump's assertion that millions of illegal
voters stole the popular vote is self-defeating Dallas Morning News, The
(TX). 01/24/2017.       

  _____ 


Full Text


EDITORIAL: President Trump's assertion that millions of illegal voters
stole the popular vote is self-defeating


Jan. 24--President Donald Trump would do himself, and his ambitious
agenda, much good if he could find a way to quickly get comfortable with
the fact that he is, after all, the president.

Unfortunately, he seems to have deep-seeded doubts. How else to explain
his astonishing statement to congressional leaders Monday night -- and
relitigated by his spokesman on Tuesday -- that millions of non-citizens
had voted in the November election? It was a claim he first made via
Twitter in late November, apparently to rebut the fact that Hillary
Clinton, despite losing the election in the Electoral College, had won
nearly 3 million more votes.

The assertion, made without a scrap of evidence, was roundly debunked
and left the president-elect diminished just as he ought to have been
ebullient.

One hoped at the time that he would grow comfortable with the reality of
his victory, and the awesomeness of his responsibility, and wear the
presidency with more dignity once he took the oath of office on Jan. 20.
He dashed that hope at a White House reception for congressional leaders
on Monday night, when he repeated his lament about millions of illegal
voters having stolen the popular vote from him.

Whatever other message he had hoped to convey was overshadowed by such a
astounding claim -- this time straight from the sitting president's
mouth.

Senior members of Congress, including Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn,
confirmed the report of his renewed allegations. And, unsurprisingly,
the claim took center stage at a White House press conference on
Tuesday. Press secretary Sean Spicer was asked if the president really
believed such massive voter fraud was present in the election.

Yes, said Spicer: "The president does believe that. He has stated that
before. I think he has stated his concerns of voter fraud ... and he
continues to maintain that belief based on studies and evidence that
people have presented to him," he said.

But exactly what evidence? The claims have been debunked. On Tuesday,
Speaker Paul Ryan said said so. The National Association of Secretaries
of State has said so.

"I think the president has believed that for a while based on studies
and information he has," Spicer repeated -- and then moved on.

That's absurd. Voter fraud is a felony. Why would the president make
such a claim, and insist on it, without any evidence he's willing to
share?

A reporter pressed Spicer on this point. If three to five million
illegal votes were cast, that would be the biggest scandal in U.S.
electoral history. Why wouldn't the justice department be investigating
if the president have evidence to support that?

"Maybe we will," Spicer said.

This is an regrettable way to begin a presidency. Trump's thin skin is
more than a personality quirk. It threatens to rob his agenda of the
energy it needs, even on a day that began with a critical meeting with
captains of the automotive industry and included orders by the new
president to revive the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines.

