
        White rage and racist thought: How history puts the resurgence
of white nationalism in context By: Vognar, Chris. Dallas Morning News,
The (TX). 11/30/2016.   

Nov. 30--We study history largely so we don't repeat the worst it has to
offer. Unfortunately, it doesn't always work out that way.

I've been thinking about this a lot in recent weeks as white nationalist
bloviating and hate incidents have increased in the wake of the
presidential election. The highest profile incident remains the recent
gathering of so-called "alt right" leaders in Washington, D.C., which
ended in multiple Nazi salutes. Leading the charge was Dallas' own
Robert Spencer, a young light in the current suit-and-tie white
supremacy movement.

Reports of hate crimes are also on the rise, on schoolyards and public
streets. Dorms at Southern Methodist University were papered with fliers
explaining why white women shouldn't date black men. Residents of the
Dallas suburb McKinney found fliers on their doorsteps. First sentence:
"Our new president Donald Trump is God's gift to the white nation."

It's shocking in 2016, as it should be. But it's not new. White
supremacist thought predates the formation of the country, and it's
never really gone away: not through the abolition of slavery, not
through the decline of Jim Crow, certainly not through the election of
the first black president in U.S. history. Remember when that occasion
was met with self-congratulatory statements about the end of racism? It
was a transparent fiction from the start.

This is where knowing the country's history comes into play. I'm not
talking about dusty, musty tomes pulled from the back of the stacks. A
pair of books published just this year provide ever-relevant context for
the current white supremacist moment.

One of them just won the National Book Award. Ibram X. Kendi's Stamped
From the Beginning (Nation Books, $32.99) sets out its ambitious project
in its subtitle: The Definitive History of Racist Ideas in America.
Kendi, a history professor at the University of Florida, bases his
exhaustive study in one central thought: Racist ideas, which Kendi
defines as "any concept that regards one racial group as inferior or
superior to another racial group in any way," have historically sprung
from racist policies, and self-preservation of the ruling class. The
policy leads to the ideology, not vice versa.

For instance, slavery was the economic engine of the Southern economy.
No slavery, no riches. These circumstances naturally led the slaver
class to defend its system at all cost, which in turn led to the
justification that slaves deserved to be slaves, because black people
were inferior to whites. This wasn't just a convenient prejudice; it was
the malformed, blood-soaked bedrock upon which an entire socioeconomic
system lay.

And when people of color advance, economically or socially, racists see
red. They're taking our jobs! It's not their country! ("America for
Americans!" as the old Ku Klux Klan slogan thundered). This is the
phenomenon Carol Anderson explores in White Rage: The Unspoken Truth of
Our Racial Divide (Bloomsbury, $26).

Anderson, the Chair of the African-American Studies department at Emory
University in Atlanta, meticulously tracks the backlash against black
advancement from Reconstruction to the present. As she argues, white
supremacists have no problem with black people per se. The rage sets in
when black people are allowed to do well.

"The trigger for white rage, inevitably, is black advancement," she
writes. "It is not the mere presence of black people that is the
problem; rather, it is blackness with ambition, with drive, with
purpose, with aspirations, and with demands for full and equal
citizenship. It is blackness that refuses to accept subjugation, to give
up."

Such ambition and purpose was once labeled "uppity," back when such
language was permissible in polite conversation. Today, when the reality
of a black president is too much for you to take, you rarely just come
out and put it that plainly. Instead you say he's a Muslim. Or a
socialist. Or you suggest that he wasn't born in the U.S. Kind of like
how you don't announce that you're a white supremacist. Instead, you
pledge allegiance to the "alt right."

It's no accident that Anderson's book ends with a chapter entitled "How
to Unelect a Black President." Like Ari Berman's 2015 book Give Us the
Ballot, White Rage examines the surgical and largely successful efforts
to suppress black voting, from the Georgia law that requires registered
voters to show a bank statement and a utility bill (more than 20 percent
of African Americans do not have a bank account) to the widespread but
unfounded cries of "voter fraud" in urban areas. As Anderson writes,
"Barack Obama's was a catalyst for a level of voter suppression
activities that had not been seen so clearly or disturbingly in
decades."

In other words, when we talk about the history of white supremacist
thought, we aren't always talking about ancient history. What we're
seeing now is part of a continuum. It ebbs and it flows. Recognizing the
roots makes it easier to identify -- and to stand on the right side of
history.

