 
        Denton County's vote-counting disaster should be investigated
By: Lieber, Dave. Dallas Morning News, The (TX). 12/08/2016.   


Dec. 08--To all residents of Denton County:

Your election last month was such a disaster that when we review what
happened in total, it's a wonder your county leaders haven't demanded an
immediate investigation by an outsider.

No need, says County Judge Mary Horn, leader of the all-Republican
county government. There's not even a formal internal probe going on.

Yet if any situation ever cried out for study by a neutral party, this
is it.

Horn stops short of allowing any outsider to look into her government,
but she acknowledges "if there was a human error that could possibly
take place, it did. ... If it could go wrong, it did. I don't blame the
machines for that. I blame humans. ... It's very embarrassing. The
incompetence drives me wild."

Not enough, apparently, to study the situation with fresh eyes and see
exactly what went wrong and how it could be improved.

The county's solution was to remove the top guy (Lannie Noble) and two
subordinates. They've brought in a former elections administrator, Frank
Phillips, who left two years ago to run Tarrant County's elections. He's
back home in Denton, but one unfinished item he leaves behind in Tarrant
is a state-run voter fraud investigation.

What happened

During early voting in Denton, incorrect signs were posted in some
precincts about voter ID requirements. But Election Day was the start of
error upon error. Here's a synopsis based on excellent reporting from
our sister newspaper, Denton Record-Chronicle, and reporters Britney
Tabor, Peggy Heinkel-Wolfe and Julian Gill.

In many precincts, voting machines were delivered in "test mode," not
election mode. Instead, voters were given paper ballots. But those
ballots couldn't be scanned properly. They were put in storage boxes.

Long lines formed. When poll workers called the county elections office
to find out what they should do, they couldn't get through. Phones were
jammed. Even if they got lucky, their questions weren't answered.

On election night, the votes were counted, but the totals were wrong.

The next day, officials realized they needed to retabulate the votes.
Counted and uncounted paper ballots were mistakenly mixed together.

This was the second tally. More than 300,000 ballots were recounted.

The final numbers changed in many races, but winners still won. A Denton
Record-Chronicle study found that votes increased in some precincts but
significantly decreased in others.

The elections administrator, Lannie Noble, acknowledged, "We don't know
what happened on Election Day." He soon announced his retirement.

Then DRC reporters learned that some ballots were delivered to the wrong
precinct. Voters selected winners in races for the wrong state House
districts.

Just as bad, five precincts showed that no electronic ballots were cast.
Impossible.

Officials figured out the reason for so many changes in numbers came
from another discovered problem. Memory cards were used in the wrong
machines in some cases for both paper and electronic ballots.

Votes were counted for an unheard-of third time. The numbers changed
again.

Incumbent state Rep. Tan Parker, R-Flower Mound, who ran unopposed, saw
1,290 votes added to his winning total.

County's solution

Frank Phillips, the returning elections boss, did not return The
Watchdog's phone message. He previously served as an office director for
County Judge Horn. He will be paid $120,000 a year plus a $7,130 car
allowance.

Am I wrong to wish Denton County residents would pressure their five
county commissioners for an outsider's look into this? (See their email
addresses below.)

"I think it would be the right move," University of North Texas
political science chairman Matthew Eshbaugh-Soha says about an outside
study. "That's the most obvious way to demonstrate transparency, and it
would help people learn about the process."

The Denton prof says that counties with one-party rule and voter apathy
"don't have a lot of incentive to open up their books."

He adds, "Voter fraud is a national issue. You'd think you'd want to be
aligned with those concerns."

To all residents of Denton County: it's hard to take your county leaders
seriously if they don't pursue this. They're hoping you don't pay
attention. They're hoping you forget. They're hoping you don't make them
change their minds.

Here are email addresses for the five-member county commission. (Tell
'em The Watchdog says hi, and feel free to copy me at
watchdog@dallasnews.com.)

mary.horn@dentoncounty.com

hugh.coleman@dentoncounty.com

ron.marchant@dentoncounty.com

bobbie.mitchell@dentoncounty.com

andy.eads@dentoncounty.com

Read the Denton Record-Chronicle editorial on the election "Make sure it
never happens again" here.

Coming Sunday: Former FBI agent turned Texas public school investigator
cites corruption

Staff writer Marina Trahan Martinez contributed to this report.

Check out The Watchdog Mondays on NBC5 at 11:20 a.m. talking about
matters important to you.

