SELF-INFLICTED WOUNDS 
October 23, 2016 | Tampa Bay Times (FL) 
Author: DANIEL RUTH 
Section: PERSPECTIVE 
682 Words 
COLUMN 
Page: 3 
OpenURL 
Link 
There's no use denying it any longer. The man is absolutely right. When Donald Trump pouts across the country kvetching to his fellow travelers that the fix is in to doom his presidential campaign, who can argue with him? 
It's all true. 
And no one is more responsible for rigging the coming election against Donald J. Trump than Donald J. Trump, who has proven to be the master of his own demise. 
As Trump's poll numbers continue to implode, the candidate has foamed at the mouth that a vast conspiracy is at work to deny him the Oval Office by rigging the election. In Wednesday night's debate, Trump refused to say whether he would accept the results of the election because he wanted to keep everyone in "suspense." 
Pins and needles, pins and needles. And yes, Mr. Trump, Dr. Phil will see you now. 
To be sure, at Trump's rallies his supporters have joined the chorus of paranoia claiming their guy is about to become victim of wink-wink, nod-nod circumstance. 
The reality -a foreign concept to the Trump campaign -is there is no evidence voter fraud is a systemic problem in the nation's elections. Indeed, the most cited evidence of chicanery at the polls comes from a Loyola Law School study, which found 31 known cases of voter fraud among more than a billion votes cast between 2000 and 2014. Not exactly a electoral crime wave. 
Does hanky-panky occur? Sure it does, more often in the form of voter suppression efforts by state and local governments to make it more difficult to register to vote, or by imposing onerous early voting/vote by mail rules. 
Or by a desperate candidate hysterically lying about a problem that does not exist in order to: A) discourage voter participation and/or B) concoct a phony narrative to explain why he is losing. 
But that hasn't prevented Trump from continuing his "Woe Is Me!" campaign tour even though he has provided not a scintilla of evidence -and no, bellowing doesn't count -to support his claims the election is "rigged" against him. This probably falls under the category of "Believe me!" Or whatever. 
Of course, Trump has blamed the nation's press corps for its biased, liberal, unfair coverage of his 
campaign. And he has a point. The lack of objectivity is obvious by taking note of all the things the candidate has said and done, including feuds with Gold Star families, POWs, a former Miss Universe, Mexicans, most of Europe, Pope Francis, people with handicaps, Republicans and Muslims, not to mention his goo-goo-eyed bromance with Russia's hail fellow well met of a chap, Vladimir Putin. 
The only ones left unscathed by a Trumpian screech might be the Girl Scouts. But we still have two weeks to go, plenty of time to also unload on Queen Elizabeth, Unitarians and Bob Dylan's Nobel Prize for literature. 
Is there any doubt Trump was trolling in Reaganite morning-in-American territory when he was caught on tape bragging about assaulting women because, well because he's Donald Trump, R-Beefcake Boy. And the media only made its anti-Trump prejudices more pronounced when it insisted on quoting Trump that he couldn't have possibly sexually assaulted one of his accusers because, well look at her! 
Does the presidential poseur of Palm Beach really believe some supervisor of elections for Upper Podunk County is burning the midnight oil to finagle the election away from him when it has been Trump who has been his own accessory to an Electoral College mugging? 
Some observers have fretted Trump's undocumented, unproven, unhinged claims of voter fraud have done of a tremendous disservice to the country, to our democracy. There's probably some validity to that. 
It is never a good thing for the international community to watch as the most powerful nation in the world offers up a major political party's presidential candidate who then openly undermines the election process as unfair, or rigged, or untrustworthy before the very first ballot even has been counted. 
But that erosion of trust didn't begin with Trump's flailing 11th-hour assault on the integrity of the ballot box. It began in June 2015 during a very slow ride ever downward on a fool's gold escalator. 
Copyright (c) 2016 Tampa Bay Times 
Citation (aglc Style) 
DANIEL RUTH, 'SELF-INFLICTED WOUNDS', Tampa Bay Times (online), 23 Oct 2016 3 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16039B45198B98B8 
