WEBSITE FALSELY CLAIMS FLORIDA CALLED FOR RECOUNT OVER VOTER FRAUD 
December 15, 2016 | Tampa Bay Times (FL) 
Author: JOSHUA GILLIN 
695 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
"Florida Moves For FULL RECOUNT Of State Over Massive Voter Fraud" 
-Bipartisan Report on Tuesday, December 6th, 2016 in a headline 
*** 
The Ruling: FALSE 
A website misleadingly claimed that the Sunshine State has pushed for a recount of presidential election results, citing widespread voter fraud. 
"Florida Moves For FULL RECOUNT Of State Over Massive Voter Fraud," read the headline of a Dec. 6, 2016, post on BipartisanReport.com. 
While the post itself recounts a real news story about a lawsuit claiming voter fraud in Florida, the headline is inaccurate enough to give people the wrong impression that a potential recount is underway. 
The Tallahassee Democrat reported on Dec. 5 that three Florida residents had filed a lawsuit against President-elect Donald Trump, Vice President-elect Mike Pence, Florida Gov. Rick Scott and the state Cabinet and Florida's 29 Republican electors. The website also cites the same story in the Detroit Free Press. 
The filing alleges that the state's election results were invalid, contending that voting machines malfunctioned or were hacked, many votes went uncounted and mail-in ballots weren't included, among other problems. The suit aims to force a recount of votes by insisting Hillary Clinton would have won the election had there been no alleged impropriety. 
Trump won Florida by almost 113,000 votes, and there has been no proof of "massive voter fraud." The election results were certified on Nov. 22, with only "minor problems" reported by election officials. 
Despite what the headline implies, state officials have not pushed for a recount. Under Florida law, a recount is triggered if a candidate wins by 0.5 percent or less. Trump's margin of victory over Clinton was about 1.4 percent. 
A voter may file a lawsuit to contest the results within 10 days of the results being certified. The results can be contested if there's a suspicion of fraud or corruption, a candidate being ineligible, a dispute over 
With the assistance of a left-leaning Washington-based group called Protect Our Elections, the trio of 
plaintiffs filed their lawsuit on Dec. 2, the final eligible day to contest the results. The Facebook post of the report did mention the lawsuit, also noting "Trump is NOT happy." But there's a good chance he won't say anything about the lawsuit at all. Even Orlando attorney Clint Curtis, representing the plaintiffs in the recount lawsuit, acknowledged the action may produce zero results before the Electoral College votes on Dec. 19. 
"They can ignore it entirely," Curtis told the Tallahassee Democrat. Our ruling Bipartisan Report's headline read, "Florida Moves For FULL RECOUNT Of State Over Massive Voter 
Fraud." A trio of Florida voters contested the results, not state officials. Their lawsuit cited potential problems like 
uncounted or improperly tallied votes and voting machines that didn't work or were hacked. The lawsuit likely won't bring a recount -or any action at all -before the Electoral College votes. The headline confounds readers by misrepresenting what the story actually says. We rate it False. *** After the Fact Bipartisan Report responds to fact-check Added on Dec. 16, 2016, 10:08 a.m. After this fact-check published, we received an email from Bipartisan Report responding to our original 
request for comment. 
"Thanks for bringing that to our attention and it was removed it from our page as we try to make every story as accurate as possible. Thanks." The story was taken down from the website, but so far the Dec. 6 Facebook post linking to that story is 
still on Bipartisan Report's page. *** Published: Thursday, December 15th, 2016 at 4:20 p.m. Researched by: Joshua Gillin Edited by: Katie Sanders Subjects: Fake news Sources: BipartisanReport.com, "BREAKING: Florida Moves For FULL RECOUNT Of State Over Massive Voter 
Fraud (DETAILS)," Dec. 6, 2016 News 13, "What are the rules for election recounts in Florida?," Aug. 20, 2016 Orlando Sentinel, "Trump takes Florida over Clinton," Nov. 9, 2016 Protect Our Elections, Complaint to contest election, Dec. 2, 2016 Tallahassee Democrat, "Plaintiffs want presidential recount in Florida," Dec. 5, 2016 Miami New Times, "Group Sues to Demand Florida Election Recount," Dec. 5, 2016 The 2016 Florida Statutes, "Chapter 102: Conducting elections and ascertaining the results," accessed 
Dec. 15, 2016 Florida Division of Elections, "Timeline for Reporting and Certification of Election Results," accessed Dec. 15, 2016 
Copyright (c) 2016 Tampa Bay Times 
Citation (aglc Style) 
JOSHUA GILLIN, 'WEBSITE FALSELY CLAIMS FLORIDA CALLED FOR RECOUNT OVER VOTER FRAUD', Tampa Bay Times (online), 15 Dec 2016 0 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16151808B581C8D0 
