BALANCED VIEWS - FROM THE LEFT - To protect democracy we must safeguard the vote
Newspaper October 4, 2016 | Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The (GA)
Author: Mary SanchezShe writes for the Kansas City Star.Staff Section: NEWS 528 Words
Page: A13
BALANCED VIEWS - FROM THE LEFT - To protect democracy we must safeguard the vote
How vulnerable to tampering or malfunction will our electoral system be Nov. 8 when millions show up to cast their ballots? It's a topic of considerable interest.
"I'm afraid the election is going to be rigged, I have got to be honest," Republican candidate Donal Trump told Ohio voters in August, according to CBS News.
He was not being honest. He was hedging the possibility that he will be the loser.
However, there are serious problems. For example, America's voting machines are aging. Many are approaching the end of their intended lifespan of 10 to 15 years.
They aren't exactly held up with bailing wire and twine, but there is cause for concern. A full 42 states have voting machines that are at least a decade old, and 14 have some polling places where there is no paper trail to backtrack and recheck the tallies. That's according to the nonpartisan Brennan Center for Justice, which has been trying valiantly to draw attention to the status of voting machines for more than a decade.
The issue is finally getting some attention thanks to recent headlines about the security breach of the Democratic National Committee's email servers, suspected to be the work of Russian hackers. Hackers also tried unsuccessfully to breach voter databases in Arizona and Illinois.
The danger of cyberattacks -- or any tinkering with the American voting system -- is a lot like terrorism. The mere threat of it, the fear of it, does the most damage. No hacking, no disruption of the vote, actually has to occur.
In this, Trump has played the perfect stooge. He is undermining the public's faith by promoting the idea that our systems are less secure than they actually are.
Lawrence Norden, deputy director of the Democracy Program at Brennan, speaking last week before a House committee, stressed the need to separate fact from fiction.
"To address and combat potential threats to the integrity of our elections, we must honestly assess the risks and distinguish between what is probable, possible and conceivable but highly unlikely," Norden said to the Subcommittee on Information Technology.
Here is what deserves underlining.
The American voting process is very decentralized. There are more than 10,000 voting jurisdictions. And few votes are cast over the internet or through machines connected to the internet. That means there isn't one place for hackers to remotely target.
Brennan estimates that at least 80 percent of registered voters in November will vote on a paper ballot, or through an electronic machine that produces a paper trail.
That said, vigilance is of the utmost importance.
Meanwhile, there is good news to report on another threat to the right to vote, one perpetrated in recent years by state legislatures under the guise of preventing voter fraud. Restrictive voter identification laws have been challenged in the courts and are being beaten back for unconstitutional overreach.
It's important to understand that voting is a right -- not a privilege -- for U.S. citizens. Laws surrounding the vote must not impede that right.
To protect our democracy, we must protect the sanctity of the vote. In this election more than any in recent memory, being an informed voter has taken on new meaning and new significance.
Copyright 2016 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
