BALANCED VIEWS - FROM THE LEFT - Campaign will end, but our toxic politics will continue
Newspaper November 8, 2016 | Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The (GA)
Author: Mary SanchezShe writes for the Kansas City Star.Staff Section: NEWS 531 Words
Page: A15
BALANCED VIEWS - FROM THE LEFT - Campaign will end, but our toxic politics will continue
Like all traumatic events eventually do, the U.S. presidential campaign will end.
Polling places will close, votes will be tabulated and a new electoral map will be drawn up that shows how our 45th president-elect got elected. Unfortunately, the stink of this campaign season will stick around much, much longer.
The depth and immutability of our partisan divide has been exposed. One side has pledged itself to anti-intellectualism and the other to jeering at ignoramuses, as if that will bring them around to sweet reason.
People have compared the 2016 presidential campaign to a reality show -- by which they mean an absurd, sham version of the real thing. Well, I'm sorry, America, but this is our reality.
Donald Trump's entire campaign rested on his determination to unleash upon any and all who stand outside the Republican Party's restive base. Barking with sexism, racism, religious bias, nationalism and a good dose of anti-elitist posturing, he pitted that base against a nebulous host of un-American, royalist enemies.
He not only showed a stunning lack of respect for democratic principles, but he also gloried in his own exploits at bribing politicians, avoiding taxes and generally grabbing all he could.
And people cheered.
The reason the GOP could not resist Trump is that the party has been fertilizing the soil he sprang from for decades, cozying up to conspiratorial talk radio hosts, casting aspersion on science, undermining the election process with false proclamations of voter fraud, sowing race-based populism.
Democrats aren't sinless, either. Hillary Clinton earned much of the distrust that she drew. It would be a lie to label all of it gender-based misogyny, although there is plenty of that, as well. Skirting the rules seemed to be a calling card.
Democrats are on point to be offended at the retrograde and cynical nativism of Trumpism. But they need to be more honest about why Trump's voters feel like the party offers them no hope. Democrats haven't been listening to them for decades now, having cast their lot with the kind of economy in which only the educated prosper.
A New York Times/CBS News poll released in the final days of the campaign shouldn't shock. It found more than eight in 10 voters disgusted with the whole state of our politics.
The same poll also revealed the widespread belief that neither Clinton nor Trump is equipped to help pull the country back together.
Trump is hostile to the very idea of reconciliation. Clinton, on the other hand, will not be given the opportunity. Large portions of America will not suddenly respect her. And those numbers will include many people who cast their ballot for her as the least objectionable option.
Furthermore, the Republicans already have begun signaling that they intend to set the same traps they used against Barack Obama, blocking anything that might suggest moderation or cooperation.
America needs leadership at the national level that it can believe in, that it can trust, that will elevate the nation's interests over partisan interests. It will take both parties to produce such leaders.
Gloat over or bemoan your candidate this evening. Afterward, at least consider that the real work for America -- regardless of political affiliation -- lies ahead.
Copyright 2016 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
