Illinoisans deserve same-day registration 
Author: Times Editorial Board 
Section: A 
559 Words 
Page: 4 
OpenURL 
Link 
Rural whites and urban blacks: Expand voting access to all. It's a plan only those with the most cynical motives could oppose. 
That's the takeaway from a resounding defeat this week in federal court that struck down an Illinois law permitting same-day voter registration at the polls in counties with populations greater than 100,000. The new rule, Judge Samuel Der-Yeghiayan concluded, imbalanced voter power and, in effect, disenfranchised voters in rural counties. The ruling squared with the law's right-wing challengers, including Patrick Harlan, a Galesburg truck driver who is challenging U.S. Rep. Cheri Bustos in Illinois' 17th Congressional District. 
It's another damning defeat in a state where, in the past few months, various courts have told voters they can't oversee how legislative maps are drafted, the pension is managed and, now, that they can register at the nearest polling station. 
Both sides of the suit lobbed accusation of racial bias at the other. Conservatives challenging same-day registration said its authors were only interested in bolstering the solidly Democratic black vote. Suppressing the black urban vote was the lawsuit's real purpose, proponents of same-day registration countered. 
Unfortunately, both sides probably have a point. At a statewide level, voters are little more than often predictable demographic blocs for statistically in-tune partisans. But the key difference is this: One side sought to expand access to voting, particularly in communities that suffer from uniquely urban issues, such as long lines at the polls. The other side shamefully sought to curtail the democratic process, plain and simple. 
Attorney General Lisa Madigan immediately made it clear that she intended to appeal. The clock's ticking after all, and entire Election Day plans would have to be tossed in 21 counties should Der-Yeghiayan's ruling stand. 
An appellate panel should stay the ruling until after Nov. 8. Doing so would avoid widespread Election Day chaos in a presidential year. Then, when the General Assembly reconvenes, there's a simple response to Der-Yeghiayan's statement about demographic fairness. An expansion of the program to all of Illinois' 102 counties would nullify the judge's concerns about the 14th Amendment's Equal Protection Clause. It would return same-day registration to historically under-served populations. It would reinstate the program in communities where government services tend to be less available. And, perhaps of greatest import, would increase voter access throughout the entire state. 
Voter suppression is a time-honored farce in the United States, where politicians disingenuously gripe about low turnout. Take a peek at voter ID laws in Texas, North Carolina and Wisconsin. Studies show that the rampant "voter fraud" used to justify these laws doesn't exist. It's a bunk excuse tapped in GOP-run states to keep blacks from the polls. It's an attempt to secure power by limiting political participation. Of late, several courts have reached the same conclusion. 
Harlan's complaint against Illinois' same-day registration push was birthed in similar motives. And the damage is real. Any functioning representative government must embrace methods of increasing voter participation. Anything less is a cynical plot against democracy itself. 
At least the fix is easy in Illinois, though. Expand the law to all counties, regardless of population. Provide state funding for the effort. And assure every eligible Illinoisan can show up and vote when the polls open. 
It's a plan anyone truly interested in bolstered, fair elections will support. 
Local editorials represent the opinion of the Quad-City Times editorial board, which consists of Publisher Deb Anselm, Executive Editor Autumn Phillips, Editorial Page Editor Jon Alexander, City Editor Dan Bowerman, Associate Editor Bill Wundram and community representative John Wetzel. 
Copyright 2016, Lee Enterprises, Incorporated d/b/a The Quad-City Times, All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Times Editorial Board, 'Illinoisans deserve same-day registration', Quad-City Times, The (online), 30 Sep 2016 4 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15FBA709B11769D0 
