Rauner, GOP abandon voters 
Author: Times Editorial Board 
Section: A 
515 Words 
Page: 4 
OpenURL 
Link 
Sorry, Gov. Rauner. Voting fraud is basically non-existent in U.S. elections, regardless of what your party's standard-bearer says. 
Illinois' Republican lawmakers bailed Tuesday on a bill that would have instituted automatic voter registration, a much-needed component of expanding voter participation. Many House Republicans supported the legislation earlier this year, only to slither away this week during a failed override of Bruce Rauner's veto. 
Rauner claimed he liked the "intent" of the legislation in his veto message. He scuttled it, apparently, because it lacked protections against "fraud." 
No. Stop right there. 
Voter fraud has, for years, been a GOP straw man used to suppress voters who, because of race or income, aren't likely to support Republicans. Court after court has lambasted states for shamelessly disenfranchising racial minorities, particularly blacks. 
Just this week, President-elect Donald Trump referenced the long-time GOP bugaboo during a patented Twitter tirade about why he lost the popular vote on Nov. 8. Even members of Trump's own party rejected his unhinged rantings, which are a direct attack on the credibility of local and state elections officials of all political stripes. 
Election experts have repeatedly shown that documented cases of voter fraud are literally in the dozens in national elections. Fact-averse Trump reckons, without support, it's actually in the "millions" and only in states he lost to Democrat Hillary Clinton. 
Again, there is no consequential fraud in American elections. It's one of the "great" things about the U.S., in fact. Anecdotally, the handful of documented cases from Nov. 8 indicate a small movement among Trump supporters to game the system, including one case right here in Iowa. Revved up by Trump's rantings about a "rigged" election, they showed up blind to the irony and committed the very fraud their preferred candidate railed against. 
Love Rauner or hate him, though, he's no Trump. He doesn't call for crackdowns on dissent. He doesn't rail against the rights of those who oppose him. Nor is he hoping to distract from accusations of fraud and conflicts of interest. Rauner's no wanna-be strongman. Yet he and his General Assembly minions opted to carry the same reprehensible banner of political repression. 
In reality, it's about politics. Rauner's interest isn't some narcissistic need for self affirmation like Trump. He simply wants to win. 
Instituting the program now could empower tens of thousands of would-be voters prior to Rauner's reelection bid. Keeping them from the polls is the cynical strategy. Representing these voters and their interests, after all, would take actual work. 
Illinois Democrats own much of the historic blame for Illinois' spiraling crisis. That said, the assault on democracy mounted by Rauner and General Assembly Republicans is just as shameful as when Democrats draw district maps that ensure their continued stranglehold on the state. 
Supporting Rauner's goals to increase efficiency and cut costs is one thing. Backing the GOP's blatant war on voters is something no one should stomach. 
Local editorials represent the opinion of the Quad-City Times editorial board, which consists of Publisher Deb Anselm, Executive Editor Autumn Phillips, Editorial Page Editor Jon Alexander, City Editor Dan Bowerman, Associate Editor Bill Wundram and community representative John Wetzel. 
Copyright 2016, Lee Enterprises, Incorporated d/b/a The Quad-City Times, All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Times Editorial Board, 'Rauner, GOP abandon voters', Quad-City Times, The (online), 2 Dec 2016 4 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16106E7315258360 
