Vote Lykam for Iowa Senate 
Author: Times Editorial Board 
Section: A 
614 Words 
Page: 4 
OpenURL 
Link 
Rep. Jim Lykam, D-Davenport, knows a thing or two about navigating politics while in the legislative minority. He's a pragmatist who, for years, understands the nuts-and-bolts of government, best shown on the Iowa House Transportation Committee. 
The eight-term Democrat will make a solid replacement for the late state Sen. Joe Seng in Iowa's 45th District. 
Lykam is no radical tax-and-spend lefty. Nor is he flashy. He simply understands the limits of government and the consequences of over-regulation on business. Yet, he also realizes the flip side of that equation: That a complete lack of oversight leaves his constituents open to fraud and abuse. His will be an important role in Iowa's new GOP-run Statehouse. Only a coalition of center-right Republicans and vocal, consensus-building can protect the state against budget busting tax cuts and water-polluting deregulation. 
Lykam faces Republican Mike Gonzales and Libertarian Severin Gilbert in the Dec. 27 special election. The LeClaire police officer Gonzales is earnest and likable. He's clearly passionate about politics and his faith. But he's also a first-time candidate, running in a special election on a truncated timetable. Gonzales isn't capable of getting specific about Iowa's budget and it's sudden $100 million shortfall. His answers fell short on the water quality issues that plague the state. Gonzales was less than stalwart in his support for Davenport Community School District and its Superintendent Art Tate, who only wants funding equity. His finest moments were while addressing what he knows, particularly the finer points of police work. We saw the very same potential in Gonzalez that Scott County Republicans did when they chose him to run for this solidly Democratic seat. And even then --while addressing the need to update state Freedom of Information Act to clarify police body cameras --Gonzales' answer that government shouldn't be involved showed a brash disrespect for civilian oversight. 
Gonzales just isn't ready. If nothing else, the mad-dash campaign will better prepare him for a future run, maybe even for Lykam's vacated House seat. Of course, voters must first show up two days after Christmas. 
Gilbert declined to meet with the editorial board. 
Perhaps of greatest import, Lykam is prepared to defend Iowans against a coming culture war now that the GOP holds total control of the Capitol. It's an exceedingly important role as some wings of the GOP continue rightward. Democracy only works with strong opposition. 
The rumbles are already growing in Des Moines about a slew of bills that, for one reason or another, would rob Iowans of rights and access to power. Davenport residents should expect a voter ID law to see the floor in the new session. Research shows that voter fraud is almost non-existent. Courts continually conclude that these laws exist solely to disenfranchise minority voters, which disproportionately attacks urban centers such as Quad-Cities. But the facts won't matter for the GOP's right-flank. Ideology trumps truth. 
Same goes for probable attacks on the reproductive rights of half the state's population. Don't be surprised if draconian restrictions on abortion --almost exclusively targeting poor women --see the light of day. Here, too, the courts have ruled similar laws in other states violate the U.S. Constitution. That won't matter as some on the fringe try to force a narrow religious view down everyone's throat. 
"It's your god, your family, your conscience," Lykam rightly said. "I don't want to regulate people's bedrooms." 
That's precisely the type of measured, inclusive voice the residents of Iowa's 45th District should send to the state Senate on Dec. 27. 
Local editorials represent the opinion of the Quad-City Times editorial board, which consists of Publisher Deb Anselm, Executive Editor Autumn Phillips, Editorial Page Editor Jon Alexander, City Editor Dan Bowerman, Associate Editor Bill Wundram and community representative John Wetzel. 
Copyright 2016, Lee Enterprises, Incorporated d/b/a The Quad-City Times, All Rights Reserved. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Times EditorialBoard, 'Vote LykamforIowa Senate', Quad-City Times, The (online), 16 Dec 2016 4 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16150D5C703A38D0 
