The far-flung endorsement in the commissioners' race 
October 24, 2016 | Evansville Courier & Press (IN) Section: News 
2055 Words 
Page: A11 
OpenURL 
Link 
Mountains stretched behind the goatee-d man. 
He was angry at the government and told his crowd at a Southeastern Nevada ranch all about it. Next to him loitered a woman in camouflage clutching an assault rifle. 
That goatee belonged to Stewart Rhodes. The crowd consisted of members of the right-wing group Oath Keepers. And the ranch belonged to Cliven Bundy. 
And in the middle of all, standing on stage and waiting to take his turn at the red, white and blue lectern, was the man who has endorsed Republican Sean Selby for a seat on the Vanderburgh County Commission. 
But first: Bundy. You remember him. He's the genteel cowboy who, after being fined for allowing his cows to graze on property he didn't own, did the only rational thing he could do: stage an armed standoff with federal officials. Bundy eventually became the patron saint of the Gadsden flag crowd, sparking everything from copycat standoffs to white dudes in cargo shorts hauling M-16s into your neighborhood Chili's. 
Two years later, his son Ammon would helm an occupation of a wildlife refuge that left one occupier dead. 
But before any of that, Cliven Bundy was arrested and tossed in a federal pen in February 2014: a victim of Obama, Sen. Harry Reid, grand government conspiracy, etc. And in the YouTube video uploaded two months afterward, at a rally to support Bundy, Rhodes delivered his angry oath to the Keepers. He wanted the government off his back. He wanted to carry guns where he pleased. And according to a large banner unfurled in the video, he wanted America to "cowboy up." According to Urban Dictionary, that phrase either means quit whining and get to work or what your "hillbilly neighbor" says when he cracks a Miller Lite. 
"Harry Reid is an illegitimate, lying criminal who himself has violated his oath multiple times. Frankly ... he attempts to use terror and intimidation against the American people," Rhodes said in the video. "Including labeling you a domestic terrorist to try to control your speech. Now will you let him do that?" 
"No!" the crowd responded. 
Rhodes turned to the man standing beside him on stage: a law enforcement official in full uniform; a soft
voiced bespectacled sheriff of Elkhart County, Indiana, named Brad Rogers. 
"And Sheriff Rogers is here to stand with you," Rhodes said. 
Now in 2016, Rogers stands with someone else: Selby. 
Selby name-checked Rogers, a University of Evansville graduate, during a Courier & Press-hosted debate against District 1 opponent Ben Shoulders Wednesday night. Shoulders had just finished mentioning his FOP endorsement during a question about jail overcrowding when Selby countered. 
"I'm really excited to also be endorsed by a sheriff: Sheriff Brad Rogers of Elkhart County," Selby said during the debate. "Because he knows we can look at these issues and address the importance of being able to look at the CASA programs and other programs ... that reduces populations." 
Selby's right. According to the Indianapolis Star, the Elkhart County jail is so spacious that it fosters inmates from the bursting Marion County jail  at $40 a popped, no less. (Pun) 
But listening to the debate, a few questions gurgled up: why is a sheriff from Elkhart County endorsing a county commission candidate in a race 350 miles away? Why does it matter for Vanderburgh County voters? And who is Brad Rogers? 
Popularity and pasteurization 
"He's a constitutionalist. He thinks that's the defining basis for all law and how he acts and serves the citizens," said Dan Spalding, a reporter who's covered Rogers in Elkhart and Warsaw. "And he's very popular. Incredibly popular. He can post something on Facebook and he gets hundreds of responses within hours." 
Those Facebook posts include his weekly "Ask the Sheriff" column, in which he expounds on Constitutional rights. He rails against any form of gun control and writes posts for a website called We Are Libertarians. 
(I wonder how it feels, as a libertarian, to have a job in which your main function is to tell people what to do?) 
He also has a knack for thrusting himself into the spotlight. 
Rogers appeared on Fox News in January, vowing to reject a hypothetical executive order from President Obama that would require police to register their firearms. No such executive order was ever pursued  or even mentioned by the president  but he railed against it anyway. 
Spalding said Rogers also aligns himself with David A. Clarke Jr.: the Milwaukee County Sheriff / Trump 
supporter / conspiracy theorist who last weekend caught the eye of the corrupt, election-riggin' liberal media by tweeting that it was "pitchforks and torches" time in America. Both Clarke and Rogers were cited by the group Gun Owners of America as "Sheriffs Who Are Protecting Liberty." 
But Spalding said Rogers stops short at fever-dream claims of widespread voter fraud, and is unlikely to launch an overwrought investigation. 
"I could not see him assigning deputies to have extra security at polls," Spalding said. "I doubt he'll fall into that. He's pretty much a realist, and I think he'd view that as a waste of time." 
And of course he hob-knobed with the Bundy clan before denouncing Ammon's efforts earlier this year. 
Aside from the inner-workings of the Founding Fathers' brains, Rogers has another interest: illegal immigration. It's as if Joe Arpaio and the late Antonin Scalia had a baby. 
Recently, his department launched an identity theft sting that's largely led to the arrest of Hispanics possessing reportedly stolen IDs. While Rogers claims the initiative is all about squelching theft, he's had to swat away claims of racial profiling. 
"He's not a fan of illegal immigration," Spalding said. 
But according to Spalding, Rogers' most high-profile stop-the-feds initiative in his home county involved, of all things, milk, and the scourge of federal pasteurization overreach. 
In 2011, the Food and Drug Administration wanted to inspect the operation of an Elkhart County dairy farmer because they believed his product was the source of a bacteria outbreak in Michigan. 
The farmer, an Amish man named David Hochstetler, sold raw milk to members of the surrounding community. According to The Goshen News, Hochstetler was eventually ordered to testify before a grand jury in Detroit. 
Rogers put a stop to that. He said his "investigation" found no evidence that Hochstetler's milk was making people sick. He ordered the FDA to get a warrant and said any feds attempting to enter the property without it would be arrested on the spot. The subpoena was withdrawn. 
"Now, over four years later," Rogers wrote in a February Ask the Sheriff column, "the FDA inspectors and the DOJ, have not returned to the property since I interposed for the farmer." 
Those kind of stances are common for Rogers. 
"He's pretty brazen. Pretty confident. To a certain extent, he looks for conflicts to take a stand on," Spalding said. "... Any stand he takes, he'll get a lot of support. But he also gets a lot of blowback from 
people who are less conservative than him." 
Endorsements 
Christ Almighty, man! We're 1,100 words into this thing! If I click on a video and it's longer than 30 seconds, I hurl my phone into a quarry. Get back to Vanderburgh County already. 
Take it easy. Do you want the doctor to put you back on that blood pressure medicine? It made your hands swell. 
But like I was saying: 
None of that blowback comes from Selby. The first-time candidate said he's run into Rogers at several events across the state. They served as state delegates together in either '08 or '12  Selby couldn't remember which  and also socialized at events put on by State Sen. Jim Banks, who's currently vying for Marlin Stutzman's soon-to-be-vacated seat in the U.S. House. 
I'd heard that Rogers was a social media junkie, so I reached out to him on Facebook to ask why he decided to endorse Selby. He answered within seconds  faster than my mother can like a picture of her grandchildren. 
"Strict constitutionalist is primary reason," Rogers wrote back. "... I don't normally endorse candidates in state or federal races. I have a strict policy for endorsing. Must meet certain parameters most of which is their constitutional view of government." 
Bears the question: what does constitutional originalism possibly have to do with serving on the County Commission: a three-person group that passes local ordinances and approves government contracts? 
Here's how Selby answered that question during a phone interview on Friday. 
"I think it's important to the commissioner role because we obviously want to focus on the issues at hand that deal with limited government, and have a guidepost that is appropriate for local government just as it is to state and federal," he said. "Considering that it's (a level of government) closer to the people, those areas are just as important to follow." 
He asked if I'd like a specific example. Sure, I said. How would that tie in with, say, approving contracts or seeking road funding? 
"It's important for us to have something that as local government, as a commissioner, that I'm understanding the checks and balances and separations of powers," Selby said. "Those concepts that are mentioned in the Constitution. As the role as the chief executive in the county  it's split into three (chief executives)  it's there for a reason." 
The gist: the commissioners should serve as a check and/or balance against Mayor Lloyd Winnecke. 
Speaking of the mayor. 
Selby's campaign website features a full list of the people who have endorsed his candidacy. Included on it are local and local-ish folks such as commissioner Bruce Ungethiem, former Congressman John Hostettler, and state Sen. Jim Tomes, as well as a host of precinct committeemen. It also includes far-flung endorsees from Fort Wayne and Scott, Elkhart and Wabash counties. 
Who's not on the list: Winnecke. Or any Republican City Councilor. 
Big deal 
Big deal, eh? Cheryl Musgrave, the Republican running in District Three, doesn't list any major GOP endorsements on her website either. Winnecke's camp even put up a primary opponent against her. 
But Musgrave's no newbie. She doesn't need your stinkin' endorsements. She's stomped her own political path for decades, and doesn't require a thumbs-up from somebody with less experience than her. 
As far as Shoulders, Selby's opponent, there's no long list online of endorsements from prominent local Democrats. That could be because he just didn't bother to list them, or because the local Democratic party is still tripping over shrapnel after it blew itself apart in 2011. 
When it comes to Selby, well, "Republican" means a lot of things these days. You have your Winnecke Republicans  moderate on social issues with an emphasis on business. You have your Pence Republicans  God first, everything second. 
And then there's your Rogers Republicans  all ideology all the time. Limited government. Fealty to the Constitution. The belief that grabbing a gun and holding it close is the grandest display of patriotism you can muster. 
Differing ideologies, all clown-carred under one umbrella. 
The problem is that working government and strict ideology don't mix. To govern solely on deeply clutched convictions, you have to dismiss the concerns of anyone outside your ideological bubble  even if the outsiders make up the majority. And once you start doing that, you're no longer governing for the people. You're governing for yourself. 
Voters of all sides belly-ache about dysfunction in Washington. Thing is fellas, we keep electing people based on their ideologies. And they know if they stray, we'll stamp them as hypocrites and send them 
packing. And that won't work. It's not like most politicians go to night school to learn welding. They're highly trained hogwash artists. They can't do anything else. 
It's great that Selby has a guiding sense of principles, even if I disagree with them. It grounds a person. Me on the other hand, I've been a nihilist since infancy. I didn't even cry as a baby. I just popped the bottle out of my mouth and said, "what's the point? I'm just going to spit it up anyway." 
But they shouldn't be his first priority. No matter who's elected, I want to see them transform into pragmatic politicians and serve the people in the best way possible. If a decision requires straying from your principles, well, is it the best thing for the largest number of people? Yes? Does it hurt anyone? No? Then so be it. 
That kind of thinking may not earn the endorsement of someone like Brad Rogers. But a shrewd, open-minded politician who fairly serves his constituents doesn't need the approval of someone 350 miles away. He can get it right here at home. 
Contact Jon Webb at jon.webb@courierpress.com or follow him on Twitter @JonAdamWebb. 
Jon Webb 
Columnist 
 2016 Journal Media Group 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'The far-flung endorsement in the commissioners' race', Evansville Courier & Press (online), 24 Oct 2016 A11 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1603821BA324A888 
