Environmentalists can work with Trump  with this simple trick 
January 30, 2017 | Evansville Courier & Press (IN) Section: News 
705 Words 
Page: A5 
OpenURL 
Link 
Environmentalists are usually angry. You know. Because Earth is dying. 
But they've been especially enraged the last few days as they've watched Donald Trump's administration unleash directives that undermine agendas they've advanced for years. Since taking office on Jan. 20, Trump has signed executive orders OK-ing the Dakota Access and Keystone pipelines; dismantled the climate change portion of the Environmental Protection Agency's website; issued gag orders for EPA social media accounts; and baby-clapped with delight as he forced a tearful Jill Stein to perform SUV burnouts on the National Mall. 
Then on Wednesday, the Associated Press dropped this wistful little ditty: "Trump administration mandating EPA scientific studies, data undergo review by political staff before public release." 
"Donald Trump has been in office for four days, and he's already proving to be the dangerous threat to our climate we feared he would be," Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, told the New York Times. 
It's funny because nothing matters. 
Yes, these are dire days for tree huggers, leaf lovers, bark nuzzlers, etc. But as former President Barack Obama once lied, there's still hope. Those fighting climate change can easily manipulate our new president into joining their cause. 
Consider the White House's recently announced "investigation" into voter fraud. Press secretary Sean Spicer, a sad man slowly transforming into a cicada husk, reiterated Trump's fib that as many as 5 million people could have illegally voted in the November election. Just For Men Before Model Mike Pence has also touted supposed voter fraud. 
There's no evidence of such fraud. But like a 4-year-old who shrieks until he gets chicken nuggets, Trump wants an investigation, so he's gonna get one. 
He's doing so because, in his mind, his almost-3-million-popular-vote deficit to Hillary Clinton damages his credibility as King President, even though, in our zany system, popular vote doesn't matter at all. But it feels like it does, and feelings are much more important than hazy, non-verifiable entities such as 
numbers and facts. Stephen Colbert told us so 12 years ago. 
If environmentalists can infiltrate Trump's feelings in a similar way, they can trick him into doing whatever they want. 
Take the Tri-State's recent designation as a haven for "super polluters." According to a USA Today investigation released in September, Evansville boasts seven large coal-fired plants within 30 miles of the city that vomit "greenhouse gases on par with Sweden or Hong Kong." 
To Trump, "super-polluter" must sound awesome. Nobody pollutes better. Tremendous polluting. And Trump would never stand in the way of superness. 
So environmentalists need to change their rhetoric. Bye-bye "super-polluters," hello "polluting losers." Think Donny would tolerate a buncha losers hanging around Southern Indiana? Heck no, baby. Those executive actions to tighten emission standards would fly in faster than a caffeine-addled Blue Angel. Because what does Trump do? Win. And what do losers do? Lose. That's just science. 
(Whoops! Sorry for trying to legitimize science back there. As we all know, scientists need science to make money, and that's a conflict of interest.) 
As far as the EPA, it should ditch its name. The "Environmental Protection Agency" is insulting to Trump. He doesn't need anything's help to protect America because he's protecting America. He's not a weak president, like Benjamin Franklin. 
Wait. Was he president? And if he was, was he weak? He was a kite flyer. 
Doesn't matter. He was president and he was weak. It's true because someone said it. 
But if activists really want to make a difference, they could point out that rising sea levels would swallow Trump's Mar-a-Lago golf course in Florida. 
Trump: There's nothing we can do about climate change. 
Environmentalists: That oil painting of yourself may suffer water damage. 
Trump: What can I do to help? 
These are just some starting off points. I know environmentalists are feeling pretty low these days, but they should chin up, cheer up. All they have to do is work hard and think critically, and they're sure to find areas of agreement with the new administration. 
Their mission could begin right here in the river city. Perhaps a massive movement could be ignited by a 
simple phone call to Evansville's local EPA  assuming the City Council doesn't try to eliminate it again. 
Contact Jon Webb at jon.webb@courierpress.com or follow him on Twitter @JonAdamWebb. 
Jon Webb 
Columnist 
 2017 Journal Media Group 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Environmentalists can work with Trump  with this simple trick', Evansville Courier & Press (online), 30 Jan 2017 A5 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/documentview?p=AWNB&docref=news/1623C672C95B10B8 
