These five steps would improve elections in US
Newspaper December 2, 2016 | Knoxville News Sentinel (TN)
Section: Opinion 559 Words
Page: B3
These five steps would improve elections in US
Here are five ways to improve our elections.

1. Elect our presidents by popular vote. Twice in the past five presidential elections the person with the greatest number of votes did not become president. Hillary Clinton was the choice of more than 2.5 million more voters than Donald Trump. Yet, the Electoral College is poised to deliver the White House to the second-place finisher. It is time to amend the Constitution to end the Electoral College.

2. Eliminate gerrymandering. Democrats and Republicans alike draw districts to their benefit, but it does not have to be this way. Fourteen states have bipartisan and nonpartisan commission approaches to redistricting. Tennessee does not, and the results often are dismaying.

Take the local example of the near North Knoxville neighborhoods. The residents can be forgiven for thinking they're being targeted for having the temerity to give Democratic candidates a chance.

The Republican-dominated Knox County Commission added a Republican-heavy Shannondale precinct to the 2nd District. This past summer that precinct was the difference when Republican Michele Carringer (total campaign spending of more than $52 per general election vote) edged out by just 75 votes the grassroots campaign of Laura Kildare, $3.87 per general election vote.

The Republican Legislature's supermajority also took aim at the area's state house seat, creatively adding a South Knox County wing designed to switch the 13th District to the GOP. Gloria Johnson in 2012 spoiled their plans by running a superb campaign. She ran again in 2014 and 2016, each time coming up a few votes short because of the next listed problem.

3. Drag dark money into the sunlight. Eddie Smith, winner of House District 13, was the beneficiary over two elections of something close to a million dollars in spending by outside groups – paying for everything from direct mail to broadcast ads to polls, including some unethical push polls. Much of the money came from groups that never will be required to disclose their donors.

After the recent election Johnson and Smith had a cordial meeting to talk about the needs of the district. Johnson pressed Smith about a false claim, distributed twice with his authorization, that Johnson voted to give herself more time off. The claim had no source citation, and really couldn't because it was false. Smith dodged responsibility, first blaming his campaign manager and then coyly using the "I'll get back to you" evasion.

4. Adopt the Oregon voter registration system. In Oregon any citizen who gets a driver's license automatically is registered to vote, unless that person opts out. Oregon is adding 735 new voters a day. Within a few years, 95 percent of eligible Oregonians will be registered.

5. End voter suppression. While driver's licenses are good to expand registration, requiring them as voter photo identification is unnecessary and harmful. It discourages turnout, adds provisional ballot problems and the burden falls so disproportionately on the elderly, poor and students that often-successful court challenges are inevitable. The Brennan Center writes that its "ongoing examination of voter fraud claims reveal that voter fraud is very rare, voter impersonation is nearly non-existent, and much of the problems associated with alleged fraud in elections relates to unintentional mistakes by voters or election administrators."

Mark Harmon is a professor of journalism and electronic media at the University of Tennessee and a member of the Tennessee Democratic Party Executive Committee. He may be reached at markdharmon@yahoo.com.

Mark Harmon
© 2016 Journal Media Group

