Voter fraud not a problem in presidential elections
Newspaper October 26, 2016 | Knoxville News Sentinel (TN)
Section: Opinion 559 Words
Page: B3
Voter fraud not a problem in presidential elections
So this guy is talking to a friend and confides that he has come to believe in reincarnation. The friend asks why and he explains that his deceased mother, a lifelong Republican, voted in the last Chicago Democratic primary.

Jokes about dead people voting in Chicago are almost a genre unto itself. Chicago is also credited with coining the phrase "Vote early and vote often."

The Pew Center reports that there are 1.8 million dead people registered to vote. There are 2.75 million people registered in more than one state. There are 24 million registrations that are not valid.

The idea that voter fraud is a myth is overstated. It certainly exists, but mostly in local elections. However, the outcry about voter fraud is also overstated and is certainly not a factor in a national election. Donald Trump's claims that the election is rigged and he needs poll watchers in places like Chicago and St. Louis and Philadelphia doesn't hold water. Does anyone doubt that Hillary Clinton will carry Chicago? Inner-city St. Louis and Philadelphia? The Democrats don't need to cheat.

The idea of voter fraud is automatically dismissed by pundits as a Republican tactic to enact voter ID laws and suppress minority turnout. That may be the case in many states, a law passed to solve a problem that rarely exists. In Tennessee some people have been charged with voter fraud in Memphis in past elections.

The problem for voter registration is that there are few mechanisms in place to keep the rolls current. When a family member dies, how many of us think to go down and tell the election commission to remove their name? When people move to another state they tell the post office, but how many of us notify the election commission?

When a diligent state secretary of state or election commissioner tries to purge ineligible names from voter rolls, there is an outcry that people are being disenfranchised, and lawsuits usually result. Because, inevitably, mistakes will be made and someone who hasn't voted in years will turn up at the polls after having been purged.

But our biggest problem isn't ineligible people voting. It's people who should vote who stay home.

HMMM: There was an interesting and complicated rumor around last winter. It went something like this: University of Tennessee Chancellor Jimmy Cheek would be encouraged to retire at the end of the spring semester. After a nationwide search it would be decided that the best person to be the new chancellor would be the president of East Tennessee State University. That school would turn for its new president to nearby resident Lt. Gov. Ron Ramsey, who really wants the job.

So far, Cheek has retired. Legislation was passed to establish boards to govern four-year colleges like ETSU. Ramsey announced he would not run for re-election. Gov. Bill Haslam has appointed Ramsey to the ETSU board of trustees. ETSU President Brian Noland was a finalist to be named UT president in 2010, losing to Joe DiPietro on an 11-10 vote. There are two problems with the rest of the rumor. Would Noland go for chancellor when he might get DiPietro's job in a couple of years? He's said he isn't interested in chancellor. And does Ramsey have the credentials to be a university president?

Frank Cagle is a columnist and former managing editor of the News Sentinel. He may be reached at efrankcagle@yahoo.com.

Frank Cagle

Columnist
© 2016 Journal Media Group

