End selfie ban in Tenn. polling places
Newspaper December 29, 2016 | Knoxville News Sentinel (TN)
Section: Opinion 509 Words
Page: B2
End selfie ban in Tenn. polling places
When pop star Justin Timberlake posted a selfie he took in a Shelby County voting booth in October, he inadvertently shined a spotlight on a Tennessee law banning the taking of such photos.

Just before Christmas, Tennessee Attorney General Herbert Slatery III issued an opinion that the 2015 law does not violate free speech rights.

The state Legislature should revisit the law, especially in light of the widespread use of cellphone cameras.

The law allows voters to use mobile phones for "informational purposes" such as looking up information on unfamiliar candidates. Voters cannot, however, make phone calls, take photographs or shoot videos inside polling places. At least 18 other states have similar laws.

In Tennessee violating the law is a misdemeanor punishable by a $50 fine or up to 30 days in jail.

Timberlake, who was not charged, said he did not know about the law when he snapped the photo he shared with his almost 40 million Instagram followers. There is little doubt that many Tennesseans are equally as unaware.

Slatery's opinion explains that a polling place is a "nonpublic forum" where the state can place reasonable restrictions on speech if it serves a legitimate government purpose.

Slatery writes that the law is reasonable because the government has an interest in "protecting voter privacy and ballot secrecy, preventing voter fraud and intimidation, and ensuring that voting occurs efficiently and safely, without delay, distraction, or disruption."

Slatery lays out some hypothetical situations as examples – employers or unions requiring selfies of a ballot to prove they voted a certain way, for example.

While Slatery's argument seems persuasive to a layman, not all judges agree with is conclusion. Federal judges have thrown out selfie bans in New Hampshire and Indiana. The Sixth Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals, which includes Tennessee, did not resolve a case involving Michigan's ban earlier this year, though the court found the challenge to the law had little chance of success.

Even if Slatery is correct that the state's law passes constitutional muster, the Legislature is under no obligation to impose this particular restriction. Legislators should look at modifying the law to encourage expression while maintaining the privacy of the voting booth.

For many in this digital age, taking selfies is a way of recording their lives. People take photos of themselves at dinner with friends, at important events or just while lounging around the house. Sharing the photos online with friends is a way of sharing their experiences.

Those experiences can include voting. First-time voters, especially naturalized citizens, often feel a surge of pride and patriotism when they fill out their ballots. Some might want to use selfies to publicly declare their preferences – a digital campaign button of sorts.

One lawmaker, Memphis Democratic state Rep. G.A. Hardaway, told The Tennessean in Nashville he is drafting a bill that would allow selfies in polling places as long as they are not disrupting the privacy of other voters. That seems a reasonable compromise that would allow voters to record a personal political milestone without impinging on others' rights.
© 2016 Journal Media Group

