You can't fly, vote or sing without photo ID
Newspaper November 22, 2016 | Knoxville News Sentinel (TN)
Section: Opinion 630 Words
Page: B3
You can't fly, vote or sing without photo ID
After failing the road test two times, I finally got my driver's license when Highway Patrol Officer Bob Stipes approved of my driving. He didn't like the way I drove with one hand, and he did not approve of my parking ability. I had bought my 1953 Customline Ford shortly after getting out of the Army in May 1957, and a friend was teaching me how to drive it. It was a very frustrating experience, but not as much as that license has caused me lately.

A few years ago, the state of Tennessee made it optional for people 65 and older to have their photographs on their driver's license. Since I had never cared for the photos that were taken of me for that purpose during the past few years, I opted not to have one. So my neat, hard plastic document bears my name and address, sex, height, eye color, date of birth and other official data. It says it is "valid without a photo."

But that validity gets me just so far. When I go to catch a plane, it's not valid. With all the potential terrorists with bombs in their shoes and underwear, officials can't afford to trust a document without my likeness. So they require me to dig deeper into my wallet and pull out the old license that expired in April 1995 with my 26-year-old photo to properly identify myself. It doesn't matter that I had a head full of black hair then.

I remember when I first used that pictureless license coming back from Missoula, Mont., and the airport official who was beside himself trying to determine what it was. He called his supervisor to look me and the license over. After I showed them the old one, it seems I became less of a risk.

Every time I vote, I am required to use that old license. State law says it is necessary to cut down on rampant voter fraud, but it seems we haven't had much of that around here for at least 150 years. The fraud, it seems to me, is being able to deny people the right to vote because they don't have a photo ID. But the biggest fraud of all is to force me to use that license that expired in 1995.

It doesn't matter that I know most of the people working the polls at the Love Kitchen, where I vote early, and at Austin-East High School, where I cast my regular vote. I must go through the preposterous routine of using a photo that no longer looks like me.

But the episode I most want to relate occurred in Chattanooga on Sept. 30 while I was attending a conference. I had heard of the city's most famous karaoke bar, Sing It or Wing It, and took the shuttle bus from the Read House Hotel to check it out. Yep, you guessed the outcome.

A rather large dude sitting at a table on the sidewalk in front of the place said my license was invalid without a photo and denied me admission. I could have pulled out the old one but was too incensed to do so. I know underage people use phony IDs to try to purchase alcohol, but I am more than four times 20 and did not understand the logic of the denial.

I walked back to my hotel (I was too wound up to wait for the shuttle) and called the police department. The person who answered said the bar could legally require me to show a photo ID.

Maybe I need to rethink that decision I made in 1995 and put my picture back on my license. I will feel more comfortable at the airport, in the voting booth and at the karaoke bars. My full citizenship hangs in the balance.

Robert J. Booker is a freelance writer and former executive director of the Beck Cultural Exchange Center. He may be reached at 546-1576.

Robert Booker

Special to the News Sentinel
© 2016 Journal Media Group

