Election allegations must end
Newspaper January 27, 2017 | Knoxville News Sentinel (TN)
Section: Opinion 501 Words
Page: B2
Election allegations must end
President Donald Trump declared this week he would launch an investigation into his unsubstantiated suspicion that widespread voter fraud cost him the popular vote in the 2016 election.

Trump alleges as many as 5 million people voted illegally in the election, despite no evidence that fraudulent voting occurred on such a vast scale. He lost the popular vote to Hillary Clinton by nearly 3 million votes.

Trump has contended, without any evidence whatsoever, that primarily undocumented immigrants cast illegal ballots. He also has cited a Pew Center on the States report that showed voter rolls contained large numbers of inaccuracies, from people registered in more than one jurisdiction to those who had died to non-citizens. The study's author, David Becker, has said the study did not find any evidence that people actually voted illegally in any appreciable numbers.

Becker told The New York Times that states have systems in place to detect fraud. "We would have seen that well before the election," he said. "We would have seen a swelling of the voter rolls and records."

Not a single state has reported widespread voting irregularities.

Voter fraud is less than a once-in-a-million occurrence in Tennessee. Secretary of State Tre Hargett said this week that of the 4.3 million votes cast in three elections last year, there were 42 reports of possible voter fraud. Only one involved a non-citizen possibly casting a ballot.

According to Hargett, the possible violations were:

18 instances of felons voting

9 instances of double voting

9 instances of residential issues

2 instances of fraudulent voter registration

2 instances of voters who are currently under investigation

1 instance of fraudulent absentee voting

1 instance of a non-citizen voting

All have been referred to local prosecutors.

Trump's assertion deservedly has drawn bipartisan scorn. South Carolina Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham practically begged the president to drop the topic before he loses all credibility.

"To continue to suggest that the 2016 election was conducted in a fashion that millions of people voted illegally undermines faith in our democracy," Graham told reporters on Tuesday.

Alex Padilla, California's Democratic secretary of state, told The New York Times that Trump had taken a "jackhammer" to the foundation of democracy. "Whatever proof or evidence he said he had, he clearly didn't have," Padilla said. "His allegations since November are clearly lies, not alternative facts."

Winning in the Electoral College should be enough validation for the president, even if the popular vote results did not give him a resounding mandate.

Neither Trump nor White House spokesman Sean Spicer has indicated how the administration would proceed. The prudent course of action would be to drop the matter and run the government, but that seems unlikely.

Trump has chased phantoms before, most notably as the most prominent leader of the "birther" movement, which tried and failed to prove former President Barack Obama was not born in Hawaii.

Now, however, Trump is president of the United States. Making reckless, unfounded allegations about the election – an election he won, no less – is beneath the office he occupies. The nation deserves better from its president.
© 2017 Journal Media Group

