Online voter registration a positive step for TN
Newspaper October 26, 2016 | Knoxville News Sentinel (TN)
Section: Opinion 510 Words
Page: B2
Online voter registration a positive step for TN
The Nov. 8 general election hasn't been put to rest yet, but already there are prospects for improving voter registration in Tennessee for future elections.

The primary improvement will include online registration, which will make Tennessee's voter registration process similar to that in Kentucky and Georgia. State Sen. Richard Briggs, a Knoxville Republican, was a co-sponsor of the bill, which passed this year and will take effect in 2017.

"Computers are becoming more and more ubiquitous," Briggs said. "It is also a lot of what we have to do to update the government to the electronic age."

The current process involves paper registration, filling out an application form with questions that might be easy to overlook, especially when the registration is done away from Election Commission offices. Even so, the commission's staff responds in a positive way, sending individuals a letter to notify them that their registration application is incomplete.

"We'll never turn anybody away," said Cliff Rodgers, Knox County's elections administrator.

When the commission receives an incomplete application, the voter is given a provisional ballot, and the commission staff will try to determine whether the applicant registered or tried to register in a timely manner.

The extra effort, commended by the Tennessee chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, is in keeping with state policy. Those submitting incomplete forms when they register to vote have the option to complete the form at their local election commission office.

Nevertheless, Briggs is right that Tennessee should enter the computer age by adding online voter registration. The next year will be interesting in making that happen.

Meanwhile, there are other recommendations to improve the effort of Tennessee's residents to participate in American democracy at the basic level – casting a ballot on Election Day.

State Rep. Darren Jernigan, D-Nashville, wants Tennessee residents filing paperwork with the state to be registered automatically, an expansion of the 1993 National Voter Registration Act, popularly called the "motor-voter" act that allowed people to register to vote when they renewed or applied for a driver's license.

Jernigan's automatic registration bill didn't make it out of a House subcommittee in the last session. A companion measure by state Sen. Reginald Tate, D-Memphis, also failed in a committee.

Voter registration on the same day as the election is another possibility but one that appears a long shot in Tennessee. Bob Hall, director of a North Carolina organization that works to increase voter participation and reduce the impact of big money on elections, said same-day registration has worked well in that state.

Some 97,000 people participated in that method in 2012, Hall said. That made registration especially attractive to young people.

Realistically, moving to online registration might be enough of a reform for the time being. After all Tennessee is a state that requires photo identification – under a questionable claim of voter fraud – to exercise what the U.S. Constitution defines in several places as a right, not a privilege. Pushback against other reforms is more than likely.

There will be details to work out, but like early voting that was instituted about two decades ago, Tennessee can take a big positive step with online voter registration.
© 2016 Journal Media Group

