Full Columns on Kentucky.com/opinion 
January 29, 2017 | Lexington Herald-Leader (KY) 
Section: Editorial/Opinion 
928 Words 
Page: 5C 
OpenURL 
Link 
Misguided attack on Mexico 
There is much to cheer about President Donald Trump's first decisions as president. Conservatives are almost certainly going to love his Supreme Court pick, his stepped-up efforts to deport criminal aliens, the approval of two oil pipelines stubbornly blocked by the previous administration and more. 
He remains a potential time bomb, however, both because of his genuine anti-trade beliefs and because of his unwholesome character. These two strands came together last week. The president of Mexico, Enrique Pena Nieto, canceled a meeting with Trump, signaling an escalation of tensions with our southern neighbor. This is entirely our fault. 
It's one thing to stress getting control of our borders. But cracking down on illegal immigration should mean policing all of our borders, not just the one with Mexico, and it should mean due diligence about visa overstays. 
Visitors who overstay their visas amount to at least half, and probably closer to 60 percent, of those entering the country illegally now. They arrive at airports, not across the Rio Grande. 
Democrats must reform 
The Democratic Party is on life support. Democrats are in the minority in both the House and Senate, with no end in sight. Since the start of the Obama administration, they've lost 1,034 state and federal seats. They hold only 16 governorships and face 32 state legislatures fully under GOP control. No one speaks for the party as a whole. The party's top leaders are aging, and the back bench is thin. 
The future is bleak unless the party radically reforms itself. We are now in a populist era. The strongest and most powerful force in American politics is a rejection of the status quo, and a deep and profound distrust of elites. The question hovering over America's future is which form of populism will ultimately prevail. 
At some point, hopefully, Trump voters will discover they've been hoodwinked. Even in its purist form, authoritarian populism doesn't work because it destroys democracy. Democrats must offer the alternative. 
Pence attack on abortion 
Do you think Donald Trump is just Mike Pence's puppet? Interesting idea, right? And it's possible. The best early evidence is reproductive rights. Not an issue that Trump seemed all that interested in during the campaign -you generally had to sort of poke him to bring it up. 
Yet one of the first things he did as president was to sign an order that will eliminate American aid to international health programs that provide information on abortion. 
Every Republican president since Ronald Reagan has issued the order, which is often referred to as the global gag rule. But Trump's seems much worse. The Reagan-Bush-Bush version covered family planning programs. Trump's targets global health in general. 
So when it comes to combating the Zika virus in South America, we'll only be helping organizations that are willing to order their staffs never to bring up the fact that abortion exists. We're talking about a potential loss of billions of dollars in American aid. 
I know some of you are having trouble giving the president credit for anything right now. But this doesn't sound like him. 
Politics of fear, cowardice 
Consider the tenor of Donald Trump's first week in office. It's all about threat perception. He has made moves to build a wall against the Mexican threat, to build barriers against the Muslim threat, to end a trade deal with Asia to fight the foreign economic threat, to build black site torture chambers against the terrorist threat. 
He is on his political honeymoon, which should be a moment of joy and promise. But he seems to suffer from an angry form of anhedonia, the inability to experience happiness. Instead of savoring the moment, he's spent the week in a series of nasty squabbles about his ratings and crowd sizes. 
If Ronald Reagan's dominant emotional note was optimism, Trump's is fear. If Reagan's optimism was expansive, Trump's fear propels him to close in: Pull in from Asian entanglements through rejection of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Pull in from European entanglements by disparaging NATO. It's not a cowering, timid fear; it's more a dark, resentful porcupine fear. 
We have a word for people who are dominated by fear. We call them cowards. Trump was not a coward in the business or campaign worlds. But as president his is a policy of cowardice. On every front, he wants to shrink the country into a shell. 
New attack on voting rights 
The president's most acute obsession is with the false notion that he only lost the popular vote to Hillary Clinton because of widespread election fraud committed by "millions" of people. 
There were, in fact, four documented cases of voter fraud in the election, not millions. Yes, I said four; two of them involved individuals who said they were Trump supporters. House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., is among the many officials who have acknowledged there is zero evidence of the kind of fraud Trump alleges. It simply did not happen. 
Relying on a misinterpreted study and a garbled anecdote, Trump has called for a "major investigation" of all this nonexistent voter fraud. He now has the vast resources of the Justice Department at his disposal, which means that if he wants a big investigation, he can have one. 
What we have, then, is an instance in which Trump's fixation on his own popularity, or lack thereof, dovetails with the Republican Party's long-standing political interest in minimizing the electoral weight of Democratic "urban" strongholds -meaning cities with large populations of minorities and liberals. We should prepare for a GOP attempt to channel Trump's delusion into the rational, but nefarious, purpose of voter suppression. 
Copyright (c) 2017 Lexington Herald-Leader 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Full Columns on Kentucky.com/opinion', Lexington Herald-Leader (online), 29 Jan 2017 5C http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1623AD12D2E34808 
