Did they vote for catnip in every bowl? 
October 30, 2016 | Times-Picayune, The (New Orleans, LA) 
Author:KimChatelainkchatelain@nola.com 
Section:METRO 
326Words 
Page: B01 
OpenURL 
Link 
Someone posted a phony news story on Facebook on Thursday that a Covington man had been arrested for voting five times during last weeks early voting. He reportedly accomplished the feat by using fake names  including those of his pets. 
The story even came with a picture of the alleged perpetrator, and quoted St. Tammany Parish Clerk of Court Melissa Henry. As it spread on Facebook, astute readers would have recognized the post as a hoax, but Henry said those reading only the headline may have been fooled. It said: Covington man arrested for vote fraud. Voted 5 times using his cats names. 
On Friday, Henry attempted to dispel the story and assure the public that the parishs voting process is designed to prevent such an incident. Presidential nominee Donald Trump has raised the issue of voter fraud with assertions that his race against Hillary Clinton could be 
rigged against him. 
In an election cycle as rancorous as this one, with advance allegations of vote tampering, a rigged election and faulty voting machines, this hoax only propagates a distrust of government, of our electoral process, and of my office, Henry said in a news release. The public needs to be assured that our elections division staff is highly trained and our process is secure. 
Henry said anyone attempting to vote several times would be identified quickly and dealt with appropriately. And she said the Facebook poster could be subject to legal action. 
I dont know who is responsible for this hoax, but I will be speaking with our attorney about this libelous action  a joke that maligned the character of my deputy clerks and myself, and called into question the integrity of the voting process in St. Tammany Parish, Henry said. We are not amused. 
Henry said anyone with legitimate complaints about voting irregularities is encouraged to call her office at 985.809.8700 and to report such issues to elections commissioners at polling places. 
Early voting for the Nov. 8 election continues through Tuesday. 
Copyright, 2016, The Times -Picayune Publishing Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Used by NewsBank with Permission. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
KimChatelainkchatelain@nola.com, 'Did they vote forcatnipin every bowl? ', Times-Picayune, The (online), 30 Oct 2016 B01 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1605728D860DAEC0 
