Should there be stricter voter ID laws? 
January 26, 2017 | Times-Picayune, The: Blogs (New Orleans, LA) 
Author: The Tylt 
Section: Interact 
583 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
President Trump is ordering a "major investigation" into voter fraud, despite no evidence to support his claim. Trump's Chief Strategist and Senior Counselor Steve Bannon, and his daughter Tiffany are both registered in two places--although the president has rallied against this type of voter fraud. His supporters say implementing voter ID laws would be the most effective way to prevent fraud. Voting rights activists argue placing restrictions will suppress voters. What do you think? 
PERSPECTIVES 
Voter IDs are a common-sense solution that helps secure American democracy. Photo ID is needed for a huge number of day-to-day activities. It's not too much to ask a voter to show their photo ID before voting. 
Photo IDs have become ubiquitous and unavoidable. You can't cash a check, board a plane or drive without one. That is why it's not unreasonable to require picture identification to protect our most important privilege of citizenship. And just in case a voter lacks a photo ID, Kansas's legislation requires that he or she be given one free of charge. 
Photo ID requirements are a reasonable way to secure our elections. It's absurd to suggest that anyone is "disenfranchised" by such protective measures. More states are moving to ensure the integrity of our voting process by requiring photo IDs, not as part of a devious plot to discourage voting, but because voter fraud is a real problem. And it's a problem that voters want solved. 
The problem is there really are Americans who do not own a government issued form of photo ID and more often than not, they are a member of a disenfranchised minority group. Voter ID laws do not actually address voter fraud--it's incredibly rare that people will show up to falsely vote in person. Rather, it's absentee and mail-in ballots that see the highest rates of fraud. 
Voter ID laws deprive many voters of their right to vote, reduce participation, and stand in direct opposition to our country's trend of including more Americans in the democratic process. Many Americans do not have one of the forms of identification states acceptable for voting. These voters are disproportionately low-income, racial and ethnic minorities, the elderly, and people with disabilities. Such voters more frequently have difficulty obtaining ID, because they cannot afford or cannot obtain the underlying documents that are a prerequisite to obtaining government-issued photo ID card. 
ACLU: Oppose Voter ID Legislation Fact Sheet 
I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two 
states, those who are illegal and.... 
--Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017 Donald Trump Calls for Voter Fraud Investigation Voter ID & a national data base is necessary to stop the fraudhttps://t.co/5hwlt9B5EP --Deplorable Linda G. (@GartrellLinda) January 25, 2017 The great political crisis we face is not voter fraud, which barely exists. It's voter suppression and the 
denial of voting rights. --Bernie Sanders (@SenSanders) January 25, 2017 It's not that complicated: There have been instances of voter fraud. There is ZERO evidence of 3-5 million illegal votes.#factsmatter --Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) January 25, 2017 The Tylt is focused on debates and conversations around news, current events and pop culture. We 
provide our community with the opportunity to share their opinions and vote on topics that matter most to 
them. We actively engage the community and present meaningful data on the debates and 
conversations as they progress. The Tylt is a place where your opinion counts, literally. The Tylt is an 
Advance Digital, Inc. property. Join us on Twitter @TheTylt or on Facebook, we'd love to hear what you 
have to say. Copyright, 2017, The Times -Picayune Publishing Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Used by NewsBank with Permission. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
The Tylt, 'Should there be stricter voter ID laws?', Times-Picayune, The: Blogs (online), 26 Jan 2017 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/162328A5D3D41C60 
