
Poll workers brace for crush of voters in final hours of 2016 election
Newspaper November 7, 2016 | Las Vegas Review-Journal (NV)
Author: KEITH ROGERS and HENRY BREAN LAS VEGAS REVIEW-JOURNAL Section: News, TopNews 1630 Words
Poll workers brace for crush of voters in final hours of 2016 election
Election workers braced for an evening rush Tuesday after weathering long lines in the morning and a slow but steady stream of voters throughout the day.

Many valley residents arrived at the polls early, lining up before 7 a.m. to cast their ballots for the next president and decide dozens of state and local races and ballot questions.

A second crush of voters is expected in the early evening, when people try to vote on their way home from work. Polls remain open until 7 p.m., and voters must be in line by then to be allowed to cast a ballot.

In the early afternoon, police responded to the North Las Vegas Airport polling place, where election officials reported a voter intimidation complaint against a registered observer.

The polling place’s team leader, Allan Gutierrez, said election observer Albert Goldberg “was getting too close” to where other observers were talking to voters in the parking lot and acting “in an intimidating fashion.”

“I asked him to be courteous and give them more room. I told him he was invading their personal space,” Gutierrez said.

Goldberg declined to be interviewed by the Review-Journal, saying he was “following orders” but wouldn’t say what person or organization was giving him those orders.

After a third North Las Vegas police patrol vehicle arrived to speak to an election official, Goldberg drove away from the polling station.

Nonpartisan and partisan poll watchers were keeping a close eye on polling places for voter intimidation, voter fraud or other nefarious activities.

“We’re just here to make sure everyone’s vote is counted, that no one is intimidated as they’re trying to vote, and that everyone can exercise their right to vote on this very important day,” said Steven Ury, an “election protection” volunteer with the American Civil Liberties Union at the Wendell Williams Elementary School polling place.

He said observers “haven’t noticed anything systemic happening in Southern Nevada today.”

Voters are keeping a keen eye out, too.

A woman at Hyde Park Middle School complained to a poll worker that the paper record of her vote had not printed. It actually had, but she couldn’t see it until the poll worker pushed aside the privacy drape at her voting station, revealing her choices.

PRESIDENTIAL PREFERENCES

The lines seem to move fairly quickly Tuesday morning, but a few hiccups were reported.

At the Rainbow Library polling station at Buffalo Drive and Cheyenne Avenue, more than half the voting machines were out of commission for two hours, apparently because there weren’t enough electronic cards available to run them. Election poll - don’t delete

A volunteer at the site said they requested more cards at 5:30 a.m. By about 9 a.m., the cards arrived, and the line was moving again.

Outside the theater at Desert Pines High School, just down Washington Avenue from Freedom Park, Wynn casino employee Miriam Beltran was among the first people in line. Dressed in her work uniform, she quickly submitted her vote and rushed to dropped off her kids at a babysitter’s house before her shift.

It was 77-year-old Catalina Garcia’s first time voting. Garcia moved from Mexico to the United States 18 years ago and became a citizen in July.

She said she felt there were many things in jeopardy during this election season. She voted for democratic candidate Hillary Clinton.

“I hope that fool does not win,” she said of Republican nominee Donald Trump. “What we need is a change and an immigration reform.”

Tim McCracken was first in line at the Staton Elementary School polling place in the west Las Vegas Valley. He came early “to make my voice be known.”

The Republican voting for Trump said: “People in America need to stand up and say what they believe in, and this is one way to do it.”

McCracken said he is concerned about the future makeup of the Supreme Court, border patrol and “most important, jobs.”

Democrat Ping Levitt said she thinks this is an important election with a lot of issues, but “the most important thing is that we want a president that’s fit for the position, who has the quality and integrity and decency to be a president.” Video Tweet

Roger Giuliani wouldn’t say whether he was a Democrat or Republican but came when the polls opened to do his “civil duty and be a good American and vote. This is what makes America great,” he said.

An actual undecided voter turned up at the polling site at Shadow Hills Church, on Vegas Drive near Buffalo Drive. Joe, 29, said he had “no idea” who he was going to vote for as of 8 a.m. Tuesday. Joe, who did not want to give his last name, said he was so unhappy with the candidates that he procrastinated doing more substantive research to help him make up his mind.

“I think in some ways I will feel sicker when it’s over, because there’s no going back on my decision,” he said.

VOTERS MAKE TOUGH CHOICES

Eddie Solis, 38, cast his ballot at Shadow Hills Church with a sheet of paper taped to the back of his shirt that read, “Don’t vote based on emotion, vote as an American.”

The Costa Rican-American said people assume that he is a Democrat or that he is offended by certain rhetoric because he is Latino.

“The heat comes from the same Latino people. Just because I speak Spanish, they are telling me I have do this and that,” he said. “They push you to vote a way that you don’t want to.”

He said he felt that supporting Republican candidates would make everybody more “secure.”

“We all want what’s better for the country,” Solis said. “I just hope that everybody gets along after this.”

Voters at one polling place in the southwest valley saw the name “Tarkanian” twice: Once on their way in to vote at Tarkanian Middle School, and again on their ballot, where Danny Tarkanian was a candidate in the 3rd Congressional District. The school is named after Danny’s parents, current Las Vegas City Councilwoman Lois and Hall of Fame Basketball Coach Jerry Tarkanian. Tarkanian video

The name seemed to carry some weight. “I don’t know his connection to the school, but I had to go with him based on namesake alone,” voter Todd Fisher, 58, said of Danny Tarkanian.. “He’s been around a long time.”

Catherine Hickland, 60, said all of the campaign literature she received helped Tarkanian to become a “recognizable name” for her, and that influenced her vote.

Then, suddenly, there was Danny Tarkanian himself, who made a brief stop at the school to greet voters around 11:30.

He joked that the branding of his name is “a lot less effective than the $6.5 million in negative ads.”

“In today’s environment, people aren’t going to vote based on a name they recognize,” Tarkanian said. “They are going to vote based on what they know about the candidate.”

Back outside Wendell Williams Elementary School polling place on J Street, Sheila Graham, 47, sat in her vehicle while she filled out a sample ballot with her son, Ke-Dayn Graham, 18, who is voting for the first time in a general election.

She said she planned to vote for Clinton and in favor of Question 2 in favor of recreational marijuana use.

“Trump? No. He can stay in his casino and run his business there but as far as the president? No. I don’t think that would be a good choice,” Graham said.

Henderson residents Catherine and Walter Motta cast their ballots at Coronado High School, though they didn’t seem too happy with the options at the top of the ticket.

Walter Motta, who is registered with the Independent Party, said he voted for Clinton but would have preferred Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders.

Catherine Motta said she would have voted for Jill Stein had the Green Party candidate qualified for the ballot in Nevada. Instead, she marked “none of the above.”

BIG RACES, IMPORTANT QUESTIONS

In addition to helping settle the bitter and unpredictable presidential race, Nevadans will decide who will succeed Harry Reid in the U.S. Senate, settle other races that may help determine which party maintains control of Congress and determine whether the Republicans keep their majorities in the state Legislature. Keith video tweet

They also will determine whether to expand background checks for gun purchases in Nevada and whether to legalize recreational use of marijuana for adults, among other issues.

In Clark County, voters also are deciding whether to extend a fuel-indexing tax to raise a projected $3 billion for nearly 200 street and highway improvements over the next decade.

More than 767,000 Nevadans — more than half of the state’s active registered voters — voted early in the general election. Registered Democrats in Nevada cast 46,000 more ballots this year in early voting than Republicans, just shy of the 48,000-vote lead Democrats took into Election Day 2012, when President Barack Obama carried the state. Nicole video

Poll watchers from the state election poll monitoring program and the Trump campaign also were monitoring to ensure that the process was fair.

Under Nevada law, members of the public can observe voting at polling places, and no credentials are required. “Team leaders” at Clark County polling locations will ask observers to fill out a form before they begin observation and to stay in a designated location at the polling place.

Observers are barred from disrupting voting and election workers, and from electioneering or campaigning, which includes wearing or toting campaign items into the voting area, talking to voters, using cellphones and taking photos, video or sound recording. Nicole video

Electioneering or campaigning within 100 feet of a polling place entrance is prohibited. Barred activities include distributing fliers, posting signs, using loudspeakers, selling or wearing political insignia and soliciting signatures.

Carol Cling, Michael Scott Davidson, Rocio Hernandez, Jamie Munks and Nicole Raz and Jeff Scheid contributed to this report.

Contact Keith Rogers at krogers@reviewjournal.com or 702-383-0308. Follow @KeithRogers2 on Twitter.

Contact Henry Brean at hbrean@reviewjournal.com or 702-383-0350. Follow @RefriedBrean on Twitter.
Copyright (c) 2016, Las Vegas Review-Journal
