The Times, they are a-changing on rigged election claims 
December 14, 2016 | Boston Herald (MA) Author: HOWIE CARR 
Section: News 
561 Words Volume: 34 Issue: 349 Page: 5 
OpenURL 
Link 
Do you remember what the Bible of the alt-left, the failing New York Times, used to say about claims that 
the 2016 election was rigged? This Times editorial Im about to quote from appeared on Oct. 17, when the fake-news brigades were positive that Hillary was going to win. 
The headline on the editorial was Shameful Silence on Donald Trumps Lies About Vote-Rigging. 
What say ye pajama boys of Donald Trumps claims that the election might be fixed? 
The Times called it reckless rhetoric. It was a frenzied claim. 
Trumps charges were nothing more than outrageous accusations. 
The very idea of rigging the election  pernicious lies. Not to mention bogus claims. 
And also a ridiculous notion. 
This is all from one editorial. Cmon Pinch Sulzberger and the all the rest of you metrosexuals, what 
should any responsible person do when confronted with these charges of rigged elections? 
First, they must reject bogus claims of voter fraud, which has been shown time and again to be virtually non-existent. But that was then and this is now. About that earlier editorial  never mind! Last night on their website, the Sons of Walter Duranty and Jayson Blair had just a slightly different take 
on election-rigging in 2016: How Moscow Aimed a Perfect Weapon at the U.S. election. Wow! Is that a frenzied claim or what? What a difference 58 days makes! That, and Hillary getting her 
head handed to her. In case you didnt get the gist of this 180-degree turn by the failing Times, they are now claiming that the allegations of voter fraud that used to be pernicious lies etc.  now not only are all the charges true, but 
the rigging was accomplished with  devastating effectiveness. 
You know, I can remember when the Times said that not denouncing any of the outrageous accusations was like standing back while an arsonist pours gasoline all over your house. 
By the way, in that same unhinged editorial, the Times also went after Rudy Giuliani, whom they described as Trumps race-baiting surrogate, for his assertions that massive voter fraud was occurring in the inner cities. 
Odd, then, that the aborted Michigan recount has uncovered what are euphemistically described as significant mismatch problems in the city of Detroit. 
In one Motown precinct, for example, the recounters had records that 350 ballots had been cast, but when they opened the box, they could only find 50 ballots. 
The AP said it was not immediately clear what caused the inconsistencies. 
Did I mention that Hillary got 95 percent of the vote in Detroit? Sounds like that old race-baiter Rudy was on to something. Do you suppose thats why the Democrats in Lansing suddenly lost interest in a recount  because they didnt want the extent of their fraud to be revealed? 
Also recall that the alt-left media refused to run the WikiLeaks because they claimed they werent sure they were real. 
Did these same hacks know if Donald Trumps tax returns were real? Of course not, but they printed those anyway, didnt they? 
Never before, the fake-news Times concluded on Oct. 17, has a major partys presidential candidate openly encouraged this attack on the legitimacy of the electoral process. 
So on top of everything else, the Times has never heard of Hillary Clinton? All the fake news thats not fit to print ... 
Howies latest novel, Killers, is now available everywhere in paperback. 
Copyright (c) 2016 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
HOWIE CARR, 'The Times, they are a-changing on rigged election claims', Boston Herald (online), 14 Dec 2016, 34 (349) 5 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/documentview?p=AWNB&docref=news/16146C8DA08B6BC0 
