Dems work the refs 
November 25, 2016 | Boston Herald (MA) 
Section: Opinion 
417 Words 
Volume: 34 Issue: 330 Page: 16 
OpenURL 
Link 
More than two weeks after the presidential election, many Hillary Clinton supporters are still wallowing in the denial stage of grief. That is increasingly clear from their responses to the election of Donald Trump. 
For starters, some argue Trump wasnt actually elected. There is a campaign raging on social media to petition the Department of Justice for an audit of the 2016 vote. Hold-outs are pinning their hopes on states where the vote was close  Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania, for example  and raising questions about the integrity of the balloting there. 
Prior to Nov. 8, of course, Clinton supporters dismissed voter fraud as a myth. 
There is a similar online campaign to pressure electors to give their votes to Clinton when they gather on Dec. 19, based on vague allegations of vote-tampering. 
Meanwhile Democrats who are distressed that the winner of the popular vote will not be sworn in as president on Jan. 20 are fired up and ready to do something about it. Just as they were fired up and ready to do something about it the last time the winner of the popular vote fell short in the required number of Electoral College votes (Al Gore). 
Here in Massachusetts a state senator who happens to have worked in the Obama White House has filed a resolution calling on Congress to abolish the Electoral College. That may score Sen. Eric Lesser (D-Longmeadow) points with the Berkshires crowd. But should it pass here, the Republican Congress will file that piece of paper with all the other requests from bluer-than-blue states. 
Keep in mind that Massachusetts also happens to be part of an effort to end-run the Electoral College altogether, as one of a number of states that have agreed to award their electoral votes to the candidate who wins the national popular vote, even if that candidate didnt win the state. Signed into law here in 2014 by then-Gov. Deval Patrick, the long-shot National Popular Vote Interstate Compact would only take effect after a sufficient number of states to reach 270 electoral votes have passed it. (And yes, that means in 2004 Massachusetts would have had to award its electoral votes to George W. Bush over hometown candidate John Kerry.) 
U.S. Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.)  whose states vote differential could almost single-handedly explain the national popular vote going to Clinton  has filed a proposed constitutional amendment to abolish the Electoral College. We may disagree with the motive but at least with Boxer, she has chosen the only acceptable method. 
Copyright (c) 2016 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Dems work the refs', Boston Herald (online), 25 Nov 2016, 34 (330) 16 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160E29611DE4EC70 
