p=AWNB&docref=news/160F7BFEF0C0F500 
Pettiness shows Trump not up to job 
November 29, 2016 | Boston Herald (MA) Author: PETER GELZINIS 
Section: News 
424 Words 
Volume: 34 Issue: 334 Page: 18 
OpenURL 
Link 
When is Donald J. Trump going to stop acting like such a loser and start behaving like someone worthy of being called leader of the free world? 
When will he stop being small  tapping out his beefs and petty rants in 140-character bursts, like a seventh-grader firing spitballs from the back of the classroom? 
When will President-elect Trump summon the backbone to stand upright before the assembled press corps and field questions from reporters in something called a live press conference? 
Lets face it, he was basically shamed into accepting the invite from the failing New York Times where he spent an hour taking questions from select members of the staff behind closed doors. 
But thats a far cry from speaking live before a scrum of national press, no teleprompters, no waving from the front door of a golf course or the gold-plated lobby of Trump Tower. 
Its been exactly three weeks since The Donald won the election and all weve seen so far are tweet bombs about Hamilton, or Alec Baldwin on SNL, or video of the Cabinet picks who come to the New Jersey golf course to offer praise and seek a job. 
On the other hand, I can understand why the president-elect has kept his distance from the press. Its tough to answer questions when you have no answers. 
Take the recent tweet on the recount pushed by the Green Party and joined by the Clinton campaign. 
In addition to winning the electoral college in a landslide, Trump tweeted, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally. 
If Donald had to account for that tweet, if reporters asked about the millions of people who voted illegally, would Donald actually say he heard Alex Jones say it on his right-wing radio show? 
I dont think so. 
How about Donalds tweet insistence of: Serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and California. So why isnt the media reporting on this? Serious bias  big problem! Wheres the proof? Donald offers none. 
Finally, there is the exhaustive Times report on Trumps business conflicts around the world. 
At the moment, Trump seems intent on being both president of the U.S. and a branding tycoon in places like the Philippines, Brazil and Turkey, to name a few. 
I sincerely hope Donald is big enough to choose Mitt Romney for his secretary of state. But if that happens, I wonder how Mitt will ever face the Senate Foreign Relations Committee during his confirmation hearing and try to smooth over Donalds myriad business conflicts. Good luck with that, Mitt. 
 peter.gelzinis@bostonherald.com 
Copyright (c) 2016 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
PETER GELZINIS, 'Pettiness shows Trump not up to job', Boston Herald (online), 29 Nov 2016, 34 (334) 18 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160F7BFF44EABA60 
