Unfortunately, the tyrannical tycoon isnt going anywhere 
October 20, 2016 | Boston Herald (MA) 
Author: PETER GELZINIS 
Section: News 
436 Words 
Volume: 34 Issue: 294 Page: 6 
OpenURL 
Link 
If we know anything after nearly 16 months of a presidential campaign thats looked more like a cage match, its that Donald Trump is not going away. 
Doesnt matter what the polls say. Doesnt matter how shameless he tried to turn the final debate into a circus or a soap opera. Trump has found his reason for being. 
Forget about real estate and reality TV, The Donald has stumbled upon something far more valuable and marketable  anger. And he is going to fix his brand to it. 
Hes already pocketed millions hawking red hats and white hats that have stroked the spleens of folks who simply wont settle for Trump going back to being a TV gadfly, or a cartoon tycoon. And he knows it. 
His rallies, which have always been light on anything resembling policy, now appear to be centered exclusively on the notion of massive voter fraud and a rigged election. 
Of course, he offers absolutely no proof. But then, Donald Trump doesnt have to. He needs only to curve his right index finger to his thumb, wave it in the air and scream: 
Believe me, folks, this election is gonna be rigged!!! Oh, yeah, its gonna be rigged  bigly! You know it, folks. You know it. Gotta know it. 
He has essentially abandoned all pretense of trying to compete with Hillary Clinton on issues that a presidential candidate is actually supposed to do in favor of going straight for her jugular, as well as her husbands. 
A perfect example is the wacky suggestion that Clinton might be on drugs, which is hilarious considering hes the guy whos been sucking air through his nostrils like a punch-drunk fighter, or an exhausted bull. 
There was no surprise in learning that Trump is poised to fix his brand to some kind of TV network. It doesnt take a whole lot of pondering to figure out that Trump TV would be a magnet for his perpetually riled-up followers. It would be a vehicle for a shadow presidency supported by the same universe of angry Trumpians whove already bought those hats. 
And you can be sure hell have plenty of cameo appearances by the likes of Malik Obama, the presidents half-brother, and Juanita Broaddrick and Paula Jones, as well as Patricia Smith, the anguished mother who blames Hillary for her sons death at the embassy in Benghazi. At least three shows every day would be devoted to mocking Crooked Hillary and her corrupt White House. 
A final thought: You dont suppose The Donald laid a VIP ticket to the debate on Malik Obama for services rendered in his shameless birther crusade, do you? 
 peter.gelzinis@bostonherald.com 
Copyright (c) 2016 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
PETER GELZINIS, 'Unfortunately, the tyrannical tycoon isnt going anywhere', Boston Herald (online), 20 Oct 2016, 34 (294) 6 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16024831D8CEEBF0 
