Trumps unforced errors 
January 27, 2017 | Boston Herald (MA) 
Section: Opinion 
349 Words 
Volume: 35 
Issue: 27 
Page: 16 
OpenURL 
Link 
What is it about the new occupant of the White House and his penchant for picking fights he doesnt need? 
It wasnt enough to simply sign an executive order to jump-start construction of a border wall with Mexico this week and continue his insistence that Mexico would pay for it. President Trump had to follow that up with a tweet that dared Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto to cancel his visit next week. 
If Mexico is unwilling to pay for the badly needed wall, then it would be better to cancel the upcoming meeting, Trump said on Twitter. 
Hours later Pena Nieto fired back his own tweet doing just that. What did Trump expect? 
The other immediate consequence was to strengthen the hand of Mexicos leftist opposition. How is that good U.S. policy? 
But the Twitter diplomacy debacle followed (1) the utterly irrelevant Trump-inspired flap over crowd size at his inaugural and (2) his incredibly self-destructive allegations of widespread voter fraud during the 2016 election. 
Trump continues to insist  all evidence to the contrary  that he lost the popular vote to Hillary Clinton only because millions of people voted illegally. He posits several of his own theories  about voters registered in more than one state, voter rolls containing the names of the deceased or illegal immigrants allowed to vote. 
Not that such things dont happen  but millions of fraudulent votes? 
And why would a man who won by a mere 80,000 votes in three critical states think its in his best interests not only to raise the issue, but to now insist on a federal investigation to prove it  by what agency its not clear. 
House Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz told CNN his committee wont be a party to it. 
If he wants to have an investigation, have at it. I just dont see any evidence of it, he said. 
U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) put it best when he said, This is going to erode his ability to govern this country if he does not stop it. 
How many unforced errors does Trump need in one week? 
Copyright (c) 2017 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Trumps unforced errors', Boston Herald (online), 27 Jan 2017, 35 (27) 16 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1622EDAF5072B950 
