Wont get fooled again 
November 29, 2016 | Boston Herald (MA) 
Section: Opinion 
285 Words 
Volume: 34 Issue: 334 Page: 20 
OpenURL 
Link 
Since his election victory, President-elect Donald Trump has pinballed from one bizarre outburst to another, but several promising Cabinet appointments had many people believing he had awakened to the need for more sober leadership. 
But then Jill Stein was mean to him. 
And so over the weekend Trump retaliated with dramatic  and baseless  claims of widespread voter fraud, a rather pathetic attempt to pump his own political tires. So what if he undermines the credibility of 
U.S. elections in the process? 
By tapping the anger of disappointed voters, Stein raised millions of dollars over the last week to fund recounts in several states where Trump won by relatively small margins. Once Steins effort triggered an official recount in Wisconsin, Hillary Clintons campaign said it would assign lawyers to participate in the process. 
Thats all Trump needed to do, too  send in his lawyers. As Republican consultant Rob Gray wrote yesterday, the results wont change, not with vote margins in the tens of thousands. The Trump campaign could have taken steps to make sure it would be fairly represented, then sat back to await the good news. 
Instead the president-elect flipped the game board  and pitched a Twitter fit. 
In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally, he tweeted. 
There is, of course, no evidence to support Trumps claim of serious voter fraud in New Hampshire, Virginia or California  and for the future leader of the free world to make that flippant claim without it is deeply irresponsible. 
Trump still hasnt grasped that as president-elect his actions  yes, including his tweets  have global consequences. 
Copyright (c) 2016 Boston Herald 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Wont get fooled again', Boston Herald (online), 29 Nov 2016, 34 (334) 20 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? 
