Editorial: Pseudo IDs a bad idea
Newspaper September 22, 2016 | Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Web Edition Articles (WI)
Section: Editorials 415 Words
Editorial: Pseudo IDs a bad idea
Here's a bad idea that Gov. Scott Walker should reject: Stamping the words "voting purposes only" on free identification cards that the state makes available for people who do not have other valid IDs. The motivation behind the idea is to encourage more people to pay for the kind of ID that can be used more widely — to open bank accounts, for example. State officials believe the move could boost funding for transportation by nearly $1 million over two years.

But moving to pseudo IDs also creates more confusion — as if there wasn't enough already — and seems contrary to the purpose of the free ID. As Jon Peacock, research director for the Wisconsin Council on Children and Families, told the Journal Sentinel's Patrick Marley: "I don't think the elderly and low-income people who don't drive should be the state's target for boosting revenue for transportation spending."

Free identification cards were a feature of the 2011 voter ID law Republicans pushed through in Wisconsin, a law purportedly aimed at stamping out voter fraud at the polls. The result has been that people who need IDs rarely pay the $28 fee for a state ID, Marley reports. State ID sales dropped from $3.2 million in fiscal 2010 to $437,000 in fiscal 2015, he reports.

In reality, of course, there is almost no voter fraud that could be stopped by an identification card. And the people most affected — low-income voters especially — tend to vote for Democrats. So it's always been clear to us what the real aim of voter ID was: to boost the GOP on election day.

As The New York Times noted earlier this week, Americans unfortunately have fallen for this deception. A new Washington Post-ABC News poll found that about half of registered voters think that voter fraud is prevalent. It is not. Justin Levitt, a professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles who studies election administration and redistricting, found only 31 instances of voter fraud out of about 1 billion votes cast during the time period he examined, 2000-2014. According to an op-ed that he wrote for the Washington Post in 2014, he isn't sure even all of those are actual fraud.

The point is the state, via the Republicans, put in place a law that wasn't needed and now wants to add to the confusion by changing the rules again.

Enough already.
© 2016 Journal Media Group
