Editorial: Donald Trump and his thrilling maze of 'alt-facts'
Newspaper January 25, 2017 | Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Web Edition Articles (WI)
Section: Editorials 290 Words
Editorial: Donald Trump and his thrilling maze of 'alt-facts'
What this really is: It's the mark a guy who is still stewing about finishing second.

Coming next on today's episode of "Donald Trump: Reality President:"

Voter fraud nearly costs Donald Trump the election!

Millions of illegal votes cast!

Major investigation forthcoming!

If only this was reality TV.

But it's not. Unfortunately, it's just reality.

Donald Trump, a true believer in "alternative facts," is calling for a major investigation of his latest lie — that widespread voter fraud caused him to lose the popular vote to Hillary Clinton in November's election. Millions of illegal votes were cast, the president claims without a shred of evidence.

"Depending on results" of this investigation, Trump tweeted, "we will strengthen up voting procedures!"

What actually should happen is this: Voter suppression techniques put in place in state after state, including Wisconsin, should be lifted so that more voters have a better chance to have their voices heard.

RELATED OPINION: In search of the truth about Trumpism

RELATED OPINION: President. Trump. Pray.

But Trump may be serious. Clearly, this has gotten under his thin skin.

In a reception for congressional leaders earlier this week, Trump claimed that between 3 million and 5 million ballots were cast illegally during the Nov. 8 election. He won a narrow victory in the Electoral College while losing the popular vote by nearly 3 million votes.

The president and his team have provided no facts to back up his audacious claim and independent analyses of the election found almost no confirmed cases of fraud.

What this really is: The mark of a guy who is still stewing about finishing second.

Get over it, President Trump.

And get on with the business of this great nation.
© 2017 Journal Media Group
