
Chernow: Here's some advice, get over it
Newspaper November 16, 2016 | Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Web Edition Articles (WI)
Author: Bob Chernow Section: Contributors 692 Words
Chernow: Here's some advice, get over it
Do something. Get involved. Stop complaining and act. Use all this energy for something positive.

Years ago I ran for trustee in my village. I worked hard, knocked on doors, made hours of calls. I lost by two of three votes. My daughter said, "They don't deserve you Dad. What are you going to do next?"

"Tomorrow," I said, "I am starting over, door to door." After that, I never lost an election.

Are you concerned that a bigot has flamed hatred of Muslims, Mexicans, African-Americans and Jews?

Then take a stand and reach out in conversation with folks who don't look like you. Speak up against hate speech and bigotry. Don't remain silent.

As a fiscal conservative, does it bother you that tax cuts and free spending will increase our national debt by $9.4 trillion in 10 years. As Everett Dirksen was quoted as saying, "A billion here, a billion there, and pretty soon it adds up to real money." If so, get involved. Work with others. Pound on your congressional representatives and senators and other elected officials to spend responsibly. Use facts and stories and try to expose the sandy foundation of deficit spending.

Does it concern you that we will have a trade war? Let folks know that something similar happened in the 1920s and was a major cause of the Great Depression. Let others know that they will pay more at Wal-Mart for clothing and electronics and other goods. Show them the trade-offs of raising tariffs and that growth comes from global trade.

But take action.

RELATED: Thousands protest Trump in Milwaukee, Madison, other cities

Look at the fact that a draft dodger with a hair-trigger temper is now our commander in chief and that he plans to name a man even more ignorant and tactless than him as Secretary of State. This guy's game plan is to dismantle the United Nations. Join organizations that support the UN and cooperation with other countries. Get informed.

Are you a woman who believes that she should decide what is best for her own health? Then join Planned Parenthood and work with the organization.

Are you concerned that freedom of the press will be suppressed? Then become card-carrying member of the American Civil Liberties Union.

Does it bother you that voter suppression has become mainstream and that even the fig leaf of voter fraud has been removed? There is a group that has been fighting to have fair and open elections: It's called the League of Women Voters. Call to see how you can help.

Do you dismiss everyone who voted for Trump as a bigot? In that case, take a gander at Katherine Cramer's "The Politics of Resentment" to see what folks in rural Wisconsin think and say about Madison and Milwaukee and the elites. Or consider what pain many feel about the loss of their jobs. Yes, I know that most of these jobs were lost to increases of productivity, but it is easier to blame Mexico and China than a robotic machine.

A great illustration of this came at a meeting this election cycle. Someone pointed out how well the Gross National Product, which is a measure of the nation's total economic output, was doing. A guy in the back yelled out: "That ain't my GNP." He was correct.

So understand that other guy's point of view. Reach out and listen.

Be vigilant, because this group of old guys will generate corruption and cronyism on a scale not seen since the administration of President Warren Harding. I guarantee it!

Look at how contracts are given out and to whom. Ask around. Be inquisitive. A few watch dogs have tried this in Wisconsin and have moderated the corruption, self-dealing and incompetent crony appointees.

Would you let your daughter or wife or widowed sister be in the same room with many of these characters? I think not. So teach your sons and daughters respect for themselves and others and that women were not created to be objects.

Throw away your sorrow pillow, and get involved.

Direct your energies in favor of something, not against.

Get over it!

Bob Chernow is a Milwaukee businessman.
© 2016 Journal Media Group
