Trump talk of rigged election is dangerous 
October 19, 2016 | Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) 
Author: JON TEVLIN; STAFF WRITER 
Section: NEWS 
633 Words 
Page: 01B 
OpenURL 
Link 
Its rigged, folks. Believe me, theres something going on here. You know what Im talking about. Theyre going to steal this election. 
It has become the slogan of the season, the mantra of a failing campaign. Seeing poll after poll that show him losing badly, Donald Trump has focused on a theme that is increasingly, disturbingly, popular in this country: The voting system is rigged. How, he doesnt say, but Trump infers that they are virtually everyone who is not at his rallies. Democrats, certainly. Republicans, probably. Who knows, maybe even Kroaky the Clown is involved. You never know, folks. 
Incredibly, lots of people believe it. A September Washington Post-ABC News poll found that 46 percent of registered voters believe that fraud happens often. While 28 percent of Hillary Clinton supporters believe in the fraud, 69 percent of Trump supporters do. Overall, faith in fair elections appears to be dropping. Expectations that elections are fair has dropped from 70 percent to 63 percent since 2004, according to a recent 
Gallup Poll. 
For some perspective, there are probably few people in the country as knowledgeable as Doug Chapin, director of the Program for Excellence in Election Administration at the Humphrey School of Public Affairs at the University of Minnesota. The new programs goal is to find and train the next generation of election officials. Before running the Us program, Chapin was director of Election Initiatives for the Pew Charitable Trusts, where he successfully lobbied for enactment of military and overseas voting reform, and worked with technology giants to make voting more accessible, fair and honest. 
In other words, he relies on facts, not emotions, for his faith in elections. 
Because of the constant claims of fraud, I asked Chapin if he was the most annoyed man in the country right now. 
Dont know that Im the most annoyed  that honor would likely go to just about any election official in America, Chapin said. I guess as someone who works with election officials, its a bit frustrating. 
While its not uncommon for candidates who lose to imply there may have been some voting shenanigans, the repeated, unfounded accusations before an election are unusual, Chapin said. And dangerous. 
When we vote, we have a peaceful transfer of power, said Chapin. People believe that its the will of the voters, so any talk that its not the case is dangerous. 
The notion that the election was rigged can foster a feeling of disenfranchisement, and even provoke violence, Chapin said. He has been heartened, however, by the wide spectrum of elected officials who have come forward from all parties to disavow the idea of a stolen election. 
Investigations into fraudulent or rigged elections have repeatedly found that they dont happen. One study by a Loyola professor, for example, found 31 known cases of impersonation fraud among 5 million votes. 
Chapin said the notion of widespread, coordinated national voter fraud is not even logical for several reasons. Voting is decentralized by state (31 governors are Republicans, 18 are Democrats and one is an independent), its done in public and its overseen by professionals and volunteers. 
Attacks on the electoral system disrespect the thousands of election officials who show their patriotism by ensuring your right to have your vote counted, Chapin said. 
I may sound like Im making lemonade out of lemons, but this is a tremendous opportunity for election officials to show their work, Chapin said. They are saying, Look, you can come and check our work.  
If you really dont trust the system, go see it, its all public, Chapin said. I would encourage anyone, if they are suspicious, to pay attention to the process, both during and after the election. 
Then he quoted President Reagans citation of a Russian proverb: Trust, but verify. 
jtevlin@startribune.com  612-673-1702 
Follow Jon on Twitter: @jontevlin 
Copyright 2016 Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities 
Citation (aglc Style) 
JON TEVLIN; STAFF WRITER, 'Trump talk of rigged election is dangerous', Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities (online), 19 Oct 2016 01B http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160204A801002250 
