Editorial:Week1 ofthe Trump unreality show:He meant what he said 
January 29, 2017 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author: the Editorial Board 
Section: Editorial 
517 Words 
EDITORIAL 
Page: A16 
OpenURL 
Link 
Say this for Donald Trump: He wasnt kidding. 
He spent 534 days as an announced candidate for president, saying outrageous things and making outlandish promises. He spent his first seven days as president saying more outlandish things and starting to fulfill as many of those outlandish promises as he could. 
Those who hoped that there was more to Trump than he showed on the campaign trail must accept a harsh truth: There isnt. Trump meant what he said. Theres no kinder, gentler, more thoughtful, better informed incarnation. What you see is what you get. 
The first clue came on Day 1 with that dark, inward-looking American carnage inaugural address. The time for empty talk is over, Trump thundered. Now arrives the hour of action. 
He went immediately to the Oval Office and signed an executive order modifying regulatory compliance with the Affordable Care Act. Whatever the laws problems, what Trump did will make them worse. Many people who voted for him will be priced out of coverage. Never mind  he said he was going after Obamacare, and he did. 
He spent Day 2 obsessing over news reports about the size of the inaugural crowd. He sent his new press secretary, Sean Spicer, out to make claims that were patently false. 
On Sunday, Day 3, Trumps apologist in chief, Kellyanne Conway, announced that Trump wasnt going to release his tax returns after all. She said Spicer hadnt really lied, but merely presented alternative facts. 
Day 4, Trump really got going. He signed an order withdrawing the U.S. from the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal, abdicating U.S. leadership on global trade partnerships and ceding Asian markets to China. He reinstituted the gag rule forbidding health care providers who receive U.S. foreign assistance from bringing up the subject of abortion. He ordered a hiring freeze throughout the government, including civilian Defense Department employees. 
Day 5, Tuesday, he put the environmentally controversial Dakota Access and Keystone XL pipelines 
back on the table. He gagged government employees dealing with science and climate change. 
Day 6 was peak Trump. He signed an order to start work on a border wall, triggering a diplomatic standoff with Mexico. He said he wanted to bring back torture. He signaled greater restrictions on immigrants from seven Muslim countries (not including Saudi Arabia, with whom the Trump Organization does a lot of business) and ordered a crackdown on undocumented immigrants. He touted a crackpot study of voter fraud. 
Day 7, he suggested paying for his wall with a 20 percent tax on imports from Mexico, which would raise 
U.S. prices, ravage the Mexican economy and start a retaliatory trade war. Mexicos leader canceled a visit. 
Governance, unlike campaigning, requires conforming with reality. Things will get harder for Trump in coming weeks. In Week 1, Trump showed he doesnt handle reality very well. 
Copyright (c) 2017 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
the Editorial Board, 'Editorial: Week 1 of the Trump unreality show: He meant what he said', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 29 Jan 2017 A16 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/162386DF2CC2BD80 
