Bill McClellan:From sea to shining sea:purple angst majesty 
October 9, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author: Bill McClellan St. 
Louis Post-Dispatch 
Section: STL Sunday 
1048 Words 
COLUMN Page: B1 
OpenURL 
Link 
Have you seen the stars tonight? 
Would you like to go up on A-deck and look at them with me? 
 Jefferson Starship 
It is the morning after. More precisely, it is Wednesday morning, Nov. 9. Last night, we elected Donald Trump. 
With a few hours of uneasy sleep behind us, we feel like a guy who tied one on at the office Christmas party. What were we thinking? What do we do now? 
At least, I think thats what were feeling. Maybe Im too out of touch to know. No maybe about that. I am too out of touch to know. Like almost everybody else in the media, I was too comfortable to understand the angst hanging over the country. From sea to shining sea. Purple angst majesty. 
I should have seen it. It has been evident for several years. I remember talking to a lawyer a couple of years ago who told me he would not advise his kids to go into law. Too few jobs, he said. Gone are the days when big companies would routinely pay for legal work without closely scrutinizing the bills. Companies are squeezing nickels. Legal jobs are drying up. Graduates of second-and third-tier law schools are mostly out of luck. 
Ive heard variations of the same theme from friends in other professions. I wouldnt advise a youngster to go into business, said a businessman. Every merger, every acquisition costs jobs. Economy of scale is a polite way of saying layoffs. 
When successful people dont think their kids should follow in their footsteps, something is seriously wrong. 
Truth is, Ive had a front row seat to the ravages of the New Economy. Newsrooms have shrunk. Its happened all across the country. Old pals have lost their jobs. 
Things have been even rougher on blue-collar workers. I remember getting a call one day from a fellow who wanted to complain about a column I had written that was sympathetic to undocumented workers. He was unhappy with me, but civil. Theyre not taking your job, he said. Maybe if you were a roofer, youd see it my way, he said. 
Months later, I need work done on my roof. I noticed that the workers spoke Spanish. 
I suspect the roofer who called me became a Deplorable. 
By the way, did you notice who had all the fun this election season? The Deplorables. I watched a recent rally and the music from Les Miserables was blaring. Do You Hear the People Sing? It was a call to the barricades, and white middle-age guys with no sense of rhythm were bobbing around. Some of them were wearing T-shirts that said, I was Deplorable before Deplorable was Cool. 
On the Democratic side, the fun was during the primary season and it belonged to the Sandernistas. Oh, such lively rallies they had! They were fighting the system. Nobody gets jazzed fighting for the status quo. The Jefferson Starship did not name their landmark album Blows for the Empire. It was Blows Against the Empire. George Lucas followed the same script for Star Wars. 
Hillary Clinton represented the Empire. Not her fault, really. Its just how things shook out. While Bernie Sanders railed against the economic system, starting with the big banks, Clinton was from the system. She had a lucrative relationship with the big banks. And while Sanders crusaded against the political system, Clinton had the support of that system. She had the superdelegates. They came with a heavy cost. She was the inevitable candidate. Sanders had the allure of a lost cause. 
So later, when Clinton tried to reach out to the Sandernistas by adopting some of Sanders proposals, her outreach didnt work. It was never about his proposals. Do Jedi warriors care about such things? 
We in the media missed all that. We concentrated on policies and polls while we should have been looking at angst. Many of Trumps proposals are unrealistic. Despite Trumps victory last night, Mexico will not build a wall. I doubt the roofer expects one. What he cares about is that Trump cares. 
In the upcoming days and weeks, we will probably read a lot of stories about the demise of the Democratic party. Just remember. The people writing these stories are the same people who didnt see Trumps victory coming. What do they know? I mean, what do we know? 
I am not sure of the future of the Democratic party, but I do have some advice. 
Lets not automatically side with the Empire. 
We Democrats had a very unseemly situation here in St. Louis recently. Penny Hubbard, who belongs to a dynastic political family, won the Democratic primary for the 78th District of the Missouri House of Representatives. Her opponent, Bruce Franks Jr., received more votes on election day, but Hubbard won by virtue of absentee votes, which were heavy. Which happens to be the norm for elections involving the Hubbard family. They seem to be able to count on a large share of a large absentee turnout. 
Through his attorney David Roland, Franks challenged the absentee vote. The newspaper also looked into the situation, and found all sorts of irregularities. There were questions raised about how these votes were delivered to the Board of Elections, and some people who had registered to vote absentee didnt even realize they had so registered. To say it was suspicious is to understate things. 
The matter went to court. The two attorneys representing Hubbard were, and are, well-known Democrats. Jane Dueker was the chief of staff for former Gov. Bob Holden. Mike Colona is a state rep. 
Everybody and every cause deserves a defense, but do we really want lawyers closely identified with the Democratic party to be arguing in favor of voter fraud? 
The system worked, Dueker told the judge, hoping perhaps, that he had not been paying attention. But he had been paying attention, and he ordered a new election. 
At that point, Democratic Congressman Lacy Clay said that he would request the U.S. attorney general to stop the new election. 
She did not, and Franks easily won the second election. 
His supporters, mostly young, gathered at a bar on Cherokee Street to celebrate his election. They had done what young people dream of doing. They had struck a blow against the empire. I was with them in spirit. I was at home, listening to Jefferson Starship. If the party is going to rally from this defeat, I suggest the party leaders listen to it, too. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
BillMcClellan;St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 'BillMcClellan:Fromsea toshining sea:purple angst majesty', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 9 Oct 2016 B1 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15FE9926B2F8F340 
