Editorial:Voter ID stops voters, not election fraud 
September 7, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author: the Editorial Board 
Section: Editorial 
496 Words 
EDITORIAL 
Page: A14 
OpenURL 
Link 
Amendment 6 on the November ballot in Missouri will ask if the state Constitution should be amended to allow the state to require citizens to show a government-issued photo ID to cast a ballot. 
Heres a key number: zero. Thats how much effect voter ID would have had in the August primary in preventing the furor over absentee ballots currently embroiling the St. Louis Board of Election Commissioners. 
Of the many forms of election fraud, voter impersonation is the least problematic. In the most thorough study of the issue, law professor Justin Leavitt found only 31 instances among more than a billion ballots cast nationwide between 2000 and 2014. 
None of those 31 occurred in Missouri, this despite the states rich history of other forms of voter fraud, including ghost voters and registration fraud. In 1994, a mixed-breed dog named Ritzy was briefly registered to vote. 
A voter ID law wouldnt have stopped any of that. The election board itself uncovered an attempt at registration fraud in 2001 and has been fairly smooth-running ever since. But as the current furor shows, its still possible to game the system unless existing rules and laws are enforced and oversight tightened. 
The problem is no one pays much attention to election processes until theres a problem. Consider that the terms of three of the four election commissioners in St. Louis expired in 2013. Not until Monday did Gov. Jay Nixon get around to appointing replacements for two of them. New commissioners Erwin O. Switzer, a Democrat, and Al W. Johnson, a Republican, must make sure that the screws get tightened. 
Fraud by voter impersonation wont be one of their problems. For 10 years, Republican lawmakers in Missouri have been touting photo ID as the solution  even though you could still vote absentee without a photo ID. 
Voter ID laws do nothing but suppress the vote, particularly among minority voters. Last week, the U.S. Supreme Court refused a request by North Carolina to let its 2013 reform of voting laws go into effect. The court let stand a ruling by the 4th U.S. Court of Appeals in July that found the laws provisions had targeted African-Americans with almost surgical precision. 
Missouris voter ID law would not be as strict as North Carolinas, but it would deny the vote to the estimated 250,000 Missourians who dont have government-issued photo IDs. Studies have shown that among people of voting age, 25 percent of African-Americans dont have such IDs compared with 6 percent of whites. 
When it finally gets a ninth justice, the Supreme Court probably will have to settle this question. In the meantime, Missouri lawmakers who are serious about voter fraud should devote some time to updating the awkward and fraud-prone procedures for absentee ballots. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
the Editorial Board, 'Editorial: Voter ID stops voters, not election fraud', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 7 Sep 2016 A14 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/documentview?p=AWNB&docref=news/15F409A139CA9610 
