Messenger:In St. Louis, purging election board commissioners is long tradition 
September 9, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author: Tony Messenger St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Section: News 
837 Words 
COLUMN 
Page: A2 
OpenURL 
Link 
Changing out commissioners on the Board of Elections has been a St. Louis tradition since at least 1936. 
That was the year that an in-depth Post-Dispatch investigation discovered that the 1935 election that cleared the way for the Jefferson Memorial to be built was fraught with fraud. 
There were ghost voters, people who listed addresses at abandoned buildings, questionable absentee ballots, and actual voters who showed up on the records as having voted but later told reporters they hadnt. 
Exactly 80 years ago Friday, this newspaper printed the names and addresses of some of those voters, people whose votes helped lead to the Gateway Arch but who never actually made it to the polls that day. One name stood out to me: Will Wainwright. 
On Tuesday, Gov. Jay Nixon stood in the first floor conference room of the historic downtown St. Louis building that maintains the Wainwright name and announced that he was removing two Election Board commissioners and installing new ones so that St. Louis voters would have faith and confidence in the election process. 
Good luck with that. 
The governor made the move as a result of the accusations that state Rep. Penny Hubbard and her family conspired to stuff the absentee ballot box in her House District 78 primary win over fellow Democrat Bruce Franks. 
Last week Circuit Court Judge Rex Burlison overturned the election and declared a new one as a result of the Election Board failing to follow state law related to absentee voters. The incident also has spurred a grand jury investigation by Circuit Attorney Jennifer Joyce. 
Its a St. Louis problem, but its one that must be solved by the governor, because of a quirky state law that gives him control over the election boards in Missouris two biggest cities. 
Nixon is following the Election Board script first executed by Gov. Guy Brasfield Park in 1936. In response to the widespread voter fraud exposed by the newspaper, Park removed the Election Board commissioners. In the end, the Post-Dispatch won a Pulitzer Prize in public service for its reporting, but the results of the election stood. 
Eighty years later, some things havent changed. 
When it comes to the citys Election Board, problems happen, investigations ensue, commissioners are replaced, and the whole process begins again. Rinse. Repeat. 
In 1985, for instance, former 7th Ward Alderman Sorkis J. Webbe Jr. was convicted of vote fraud for allegedly conspiring with his father and others to alter absentee votes to steal the 1980 Democratic primary. There were inquiries and trials. Election Board commissioners were replaced to restore faith in the process. 
Then there was 1994 and questions were raised about Election Board connections to riverboat gambling before a vote. There was another purge. 
In 1997, the governor moved again to restore order. 
By 2000, the Justice Department was back, suing the citys Election Board for widespread problems in St. Louis during the presidential election. Nixon was the state attorney general at the time, and his top aide was Burlison, who found himself on the opposite side of where he is today, defending the state against such outside intrusion. 
In 2001, after FBI subpoenas, Gov. Bob Holden made changes. One of his top aides was Jane Dueker, the lawyer now representing the Hubbards in the latest Election Board tiff. 
Three years later, state Auditor Claire McCaskill (now a U.S. senator) called for the Election Board law to be changed, suggesting local control would be better than the long-standing tradition of the governor making political appointments to the troubled board. 
That was the basis of my question to Nixon on Tuesday. I asked if the problem wasnt the commissioners, nor the current political family gone awry, but a broken system. 
I dont think so, Nixon said. 
Heres what he didnt mention in his news conference: In naming two new commissioners to clean up the current mess, hes ousting the last two people he named to the post in 2011 to do the same thing, restore faith and confidence in the election process. 
Apparently, former Circuit Court Judge Joan Burger was just the person for the job when the Election Board last needed a fix. Now? Heres what Nixon said when I asked him if Burger had been doing a good job: 
Well, I mean, its not like I get up every day thinking about the  I will say this  the two lawsuits  I 
mean these are  Im not here in any way shape or form saying the two people we are replacing  One (Burger) is a retired circuit court judge with a distinguished career  Its just time for change here. 
Its time for a change, but not too big of one. 
In St. Louis, the Election Board, like the Gateway Arch, casts a shadow over the city, because repeating past sins is a lot easier than learning from them. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Tony Messenger; St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 'Messenger: In St. Louis, purging election board commissioners is long tradition', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 9 Sep 2016 A2 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15F4CBA8F98CAE68 
