Editorial:Veto session challenges lawmakers to do the right thing 
September 13, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author: the Editorial Board 
Section: Editorial 
696 Words 
EDITORIAL 
Page: A10 
OpenURL 
Link 
When the Missouri Legislature convenes its annual veto session Wednesday, the focus will rightly be on Senate Bill 656. Thats the gun bill that would, among other things, allow Missourians to carry weapons without a permit and shoot anyone, anywhere if they feel threatened. 
But that was just one of 22 bills that Democratic Gov. Jay Nixon vetoed this summer; most, if not all, of them deserved that fate. Some, like SB 608, would impose unaffordable penalty fees on Missouri Medicaid recipients, punishing the poorest of the poor. Others are gifts to special interests, like SB 1025, which exempts exercise classes from sales taxes, and House Bill 1713, which could give polluters a built-in majority on the states Clean Water Commission. 
Republicans enjoy veto-proof majorities in both houses. If legislative leaders hold their troops in line, the state will become a more dangerous place, as St. Louis Police Chief Sam Dotson warns on todays oped page. State revenue will be siphoned off to special interests with no promise of new jobs or economic activity. 
We hope lawmakers will remember whom they work for. The veto session is a chance to put teeth into the state motto: The good of the people shall be the highest law. 
Unfortunately, the motto of the annual veto sessions might as well be Wheres the party? At least 31 fundraising events were scheduled to coincide with the lawmakers brief return to Jefferson City, two months ahead of the November election. 
Given the talk (if not the action) on ethics reform that dominated the legislative session this spring, this looks particularly bad. Even Illinois, with its sordid history of political corruption, prohibits legislators from raising money while theyre in session. Average voters dont attend these parties. Special interests and their lobbyists do, checkbooks in hand. 
Here are some key bills that voters should watch carefully: 
 
SB 656, the aforementioned gun bill. Three Democrats joined Republicans in passing the bill this spring, but Nixon has been working hard to turn them around and peel off a few Republicans. I tell the lawmakers, talk to your sheriffs, Nixon told us Monday. Someone comes in to them whos a domestic violence victim, and they cant tell them they can stop someone from getting a concealed carry permit. Im trying to take politics out of this and bring some thought to it. 
 
SB 586/651, which used voodoo economics to reset the legislatively approved public school foundation 
formula. Current law says schools need $3.67 billion a year to be fully funded. The Legislature waved a magic wand and reduced that figure by $400 million  and didnt even appropriate the lower amount. 
 
HB 1631, enabling legislation that would create a voter ID bill if voters approve Amendment 6 on the November ballot. It addresses a form of voter fraud that doesnt exist at the cost of disenfranchising 250,000 Missourians. 
 
HB 1891, which is a version of right to work that applies only to public employees. It would gut public employee unions and reduce worker pay. 
A lot of ill-considered legislation was passed in the last week of the regular session. Lawmakers now have a second chance to get it right. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
the Editorial Board, 'Editorial: Veto session challenges lawmakers to do the right thing', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 13 Sep 2016 A10 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15F60CEE6CADE978 
