Horrigan:Voter fraud. It ain't what it used to be 
September 11, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author: Kevin Horrigan St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Section: Editorial 
831 Words 
COLUMN 
Page: A19 
OpenURL 
Link 
Half a century ago, a political scientist named Wallace Sayre coined the adage now known as Sayre's Law: "In any dispute, the intensity of feeling is inversely proportional to the value of the issues at stake." 
Sayre's law helps explain the limited, but fierce, passions inspired by the banana republican Democratic primary in the 78th Missouri House District. Challenger Bruce Franks Jr., who narrowly lost on Aug. 2 to incumbent Rep. Penny V. Hubbard, has persuaded a judge to order a new election because of the way the St. Louis Election Board handled absentee ballots. 
Hubbard has appealed and last week, Gov. Jay Nixon flew into town to (belatedly) name two new election commissioners, explaining eloquently: Well, I mean, its not like I get up every day thinking about the  I will say this  the two lawsuits  I mean these are  Im not here in any way shape or form saying the two people we are replacing  One (Joan Burger) is a retired circuit court judge with a distinguished career  Its just time for change here. 
This pretty much says it all. 
By invoking Sayre's Law, I do not mean to imply that the voter fraud that Franks and his attorney, Dave Roland, have alleged isn't a biggish deal. I, for one, hope Franks prevails because I'm looking forward to seeing how the bubbas and bubbettes in the Missouri House react to the presence of a hip young African-American ex-Ferguson protester who habitually dresses in T-shirts and skinny jeans. 
Democrats need to pick up 10 seats in November just to wipe out the GOP's veto-proof majority. Franks is thus running for a job that will leave him tied for last in seniority in a very minority party. In the grand scheme of things, the furor over the election of one junior member among 163 state representatives isn't exactly Bush v. Gore. 
On the other hand, I like an idealist and they have to start somewhere. The gig pays $36,000 a year plus expenses and benefits, and as Hubbard and her family have amply demonstrated, the job can leverage better things. 
The Hubbards, Penny and her husband, Rodney Sr., and their son, Rodney R., and daughter, Tammika, are known as people you can do business with. It might be a lousy Democratic House seat to you, but in the right hands, it can be the foundation of a family business. 
Consider: Paterfamilias Rodney Hubbard, the 5th Ward committeeman, runs the Carr Square Tenant Management Corp. The public housing agency has a 2.5 percent stake in Paul McKee's NorthSide 
Regeneration Co. and fronted some of the tax credits for McKee's grand redevelopment plans. 
Son Rodney R. Hubbard represented the 58th House District from 2002 to 2008, voted with Republicans to repeal campaign donation limits and then was defeated in a state Senate primary in 2010. Because of his support for public school reform, his Senate campaign got a $30,000 campaign donation from conservative megadonor Rex Sinquefield. Alas, he had to return some of it after the Missouri Ethics Commission hit his campaign with a $322,000 fine, believed to be the largest in state history. 
By the way, the woman who defeated him in the Senate race, Robin Wright-Jones, got hit with a $271,000 ethics commission fine. The commission disallowed her spending on things like campaign watch batteries and campaign shoes. 
Naturally enough, the younger Hubbard became a lobbyist and was hired by, among others, McKee's company, Ameren Missouri, Mayor Francis Slay's office and Brown & Associates, the firm run by the city's principal lobbyist, James P. Brown. Sadly, Slay and Brown dropped Hubbard on Aug. 15 as the absentee ballot scandal was unfolding. There's loyalty for you. 
Penny Hubbard, who was elected to her son's old seat in 2010, also will play ball, as my colleague Tony Messenger recently described. In 2013, after she voted with Republicans on an elections bill, House Democratic leader Jake Hummel stripped her of her committee assignments. Republican Speaker Tim Jones repaid her by naming her chairman of a new committee, a rare treat for a Democrat in the GOP House. 
Sayre's Law applies. To an outsider, this looks like inside baseball. But the Hubbards care; they're trying to protect their living. Young reform Democrats care; they're tired of going along to get along. 
In the old days, nobody would have batted an eye, except for uptight newspaper people and good-government types. You don't want to be revolted, don't watch em make sausage. Missouri was run by giants of patronage politics, men like Boss Tom Pendergast of Kansas City and Mayor Barney Dickmann of St. Louis, whose forces stole the 1935 election that cleared the land upon which the Gateway Arch was built. An amazing 97 percent of voters in the 5th Ward voted for Dickmann's bond issue. 
St. Louis has changed most of that, but not all of it. By sheer coincidence, the 5th Ward today is represented by Alderman Tammika Hubbard. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Kevin Horrigan; St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 'Horrigan: Voter fraud. It ain't what it used to be', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 11 Sep 2016 A19 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15F55F3DB663BC90 
