Editorial:City's absentee kerfuffle causes costly confusion around the state. 
September 29, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author: the Editorial Board 
Section: Editorial 
532 Words 
Page: A16 
OpenURL 
Link 
Back in May, in what now seems like an ominous bit of foreshadowing, the Missouri Legislature overwhelmingly passed House Bill 1480. It gives election authorities the right to set up voting machines in their headquarters so that voters can cast absentee ballots electronically. No fuss, no muss and, significantly, no having to stuff the ballot into an envelope and get it witnessed beforehand. 
The only problem with HB 1480 is that it doesnt take effect until Jan. 1, 2018. Until then, county clerks and election authorities are faced with a state election law that demands envelopes while federal law says electronic voting must be available. If someone is certified to cast an early absentee ballot at the election office, theres no need for an envelope attesting to his identity. 
This is not just silly, but expensive. As the states chief election officer, Missouri Secretary of State Jason Kander should ask a federal court to guide local election authorities in the November election and local elections next year. 
The conflict was set up by a St. Louis Circuit Court decision on Sept. 2 ordering a revote in the Aug. 2 Democratic primary race between incumbent Penny Hubbard and Bruce Franks Jr. Some absentee votes in that race, while not cast at the election board offices, came without envelopes bearing notarized information about the identity of the voter. 
Judge Rex Burlison said envelopes were required by state law. Now election officials around the state worry that they may have to use envelopes until 2018 even when someone is voting absentee in person. 
St. Louis Countys Election Board would have to spend an extra $250,000 on the November election alone. That will pay for printing extra envelopes and ballots and hiring temporary workers to open them. 
Congress passed the Help America Vote Act of 2002 to reform the voting process, in part by helping states buy electronic voting machines that voters are entitled to use. Some 34 states went further, allowing early, no-excuse-needed absentee voting. Three states mail ballots to all registered voters, enabling them to vote by mail if they wish. Missouri left confusion in place. 
Missouri flirted with early voting in 2004 before Republicans came to see it as a plot to increase Democratic votes. Instead they turned their attention to a long effort to pass suppressive voter ID laws that do nothing to stop voter fraud. 
This year the Legislature at least recognized it was stupid to expect someone voting absentee at a 
machine to have an envelope, too. A permanent disabled voter registration should be the next step. In the meantime, a judge should clear up the state-federal conflict. Envelopes should be required only for those who physically cant make it to the polls. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
the Editorial Board, 'Editorial: City's absentee kerfuffle causes costly confusion around the state.', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 29 Sep 2016 A16 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15FB4E57DC3ADE20 
