Dont penalize voters when the system fails 
September 9, 2016 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author:WilliamLacyClay 
Section:Editorial 
674Words 
COMMENTARY 
Page: A15 
OpenURL 
Link 
Along with a growing number of my constituents, I am concerned about the developments surrounding the recent primary election in Missouris 78th House District, which pitted incumbent Rep. Penny Hubbard against challenger Bruce Franks. 
From my very first election in 2000, I have fought hard to make sure that every citizen who wants to vote gets the opportunity to vote and to assure that their vote is counted. In 2000, we successfully proved that the St. Louis Election Board wrongfully denied thousands of voters their rights through the illegal use of an inactive voter list. 
However in this election, we are confronted with a new dilemma. There is great controversy about a group of absentee ballots cast in this state representative race and what to do with these votes. 
This is an important issue and we need to insure justice, for the integrity of our election process is at stake. There should be zero tolerance for voter fraud. 
In this case, the court did not receive credible evidence of fraud by any party. There were some problems at the St. Louis Election Board cited by the court, and Gov. Jay Nixon has stepped up to start the process to correct them. 
The law in Missouri is clear: If there are problems at the Election Board, the voters should not be penalized. A complicated question with a simple answer; count the votes and declare the winner. 
I know that many are very passionate about this election, and that is a good thing. However, passion should be tempered with reason in the public domain. 
I sincerely hope that Franks and his supporters are not so anxious to win the election that they are willing to deprive the constituents he wants to serve of their right to vote. That is carrying passion a bit too far. 
There are some disturbing aspects of this case that I want to bring to light. First of all, lets be fair when discussing the matter of the large number of absentee ballots that stirred this controversy. 
For some reason, in this election, many advocates for Franks have portrayed the absentee votes as tainted and unseemly. We can do better. Like Franks supporters, Hubbards are passionate about their candidate and voted for their candidate of choice. 
In St. Louis city and county, voters have appeared at the respective election boards, before Election 
Day, to cast their absentee ballots for years, without any question, and we have all allowed this form of early voting without disagreement. 
We must be sure that we apply the law fairly and equitably in this instance. We cant decide after the election that we are going to change the rules because we dont like the outcome. 
The court has ordered a new election next week. This is without doubt a situation where the cure is worse than the disease. 
As I did in Ferguson, I am going to ask the Justice Department to look at this election and the resulting lawsuits and rulings to ensure that the passion of Franks supporters (and others who have political reasons to undo this election) do not disenfranchise the elderly and disabled voters who will not have an opportunity to cast their absentee ballots in a timely matter. 
There is another more disturbing reason I will ask the Justice Department to intervene. In Thornburg v. Gingles, 478 U.S. 30 (1986), the Supreme Court clarified that the essence of a Section 2 voting rights claim is that a certain electoral law, practice or structure interacts with social and historical conditions to cause an inequity in the opportunities enjoyed by black and white voters to elect their preferred representatives. 
I want an unbiased party to evaluate this election and give my constituents the confidence that their votes (absentee or not) are given equal weight. 
U.S. Rep. William Lacy Clay is a Democrat from St. Louis. 
Copyright (c) 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
WilliamLacyClay, 'Dontpenalize voters whenthe systemfails', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 9 Sep 2016 A15 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/15F4CB6D16FE46B8 
