Raasch:By again raising dubious voter fraud claims, Trumpblunts his own momentum 
January 25, 2017 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) 
Author: Chuck Raasch St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Section: News 
752 Words 
COLUMN 
Page: A6 
OpenURL 
Link 
WASHINGTON  The question is not whether his detractors think hes a legitimate president. The question is whether Donald Trump thinks he is. 
Thats the only logical takeaway from Trumps fresh raising of unsubstantiated claims  based partly on a study that doesnt say what he says it says  that 3 million to 5 million people voted illegally in the November election, and that that cost him a victory in the popular vote. 
Trump made that claim to congressional leaders in a meeting late Monday, and his press secretary, Sean Spicer, was peppered with questions about it in his briefing Tuesday. 
First, voter fraud as serious as the president alleges is as important an issue as one can have about the strength, legitimacy and viability of the republic. So this is not a distraction from real issues. 
As long as the president insists on relitigating an election he won, and in particular in doing it with congressional leaders that he will have to negotiate with for at least the next two years, his comments cannot be dismissed as Trump being Trump. 
Second, when a president makes a claim of massive election fraud, the next question is: What are you going to do about it, Mr. President? 
Third, sticking to beliefs despite a lack of substantiating facts is a leadership trait that only leads to more serious questions. 
Presented with fresh facts, is this president capable of changing his mind for what he believes may be the greater good? Its not a rhetorical question in a world of evolving science on everything from climate change to police-community relations. 
He is very comfortable with his win, Spicer told reporters, exasperated at multiple questions his boss had forced back onto the daily briefing agenda. He got 306 electoral votes. Thirty-three of 50 states voted for him. 
The voter fraud claims? He believes what he believes based on the information that has been provided, Spicer said. 
The problem is that information cited by the White House doesnt substantiate the claims. Spicer again 
cited a Pew Charitable Trusts 2012 study about the barriers to efficient voting in the states. 
Our work has focused on inefficient and inaccurate voter registration processes, which are not evidence of fraud at polling places, Pew Charitable Trusts spokeswoman Kelly Hoffman said Tuesday. 
This is not a battle over inside baseball statistics. Facts matter, and the presidents focus matters. 
This also was a self-inflicted wound that Trump cant blame on the media. Just as furor over his false claims that up to 1.5 million people had attended his inauguration had died down, his recurring focus on the voter-fraud claims slowed momentum and blurred optics that were starting to go his way. 
Right out of the box, Trump fulfilled a bunch of campaign promises with executive actions on everything from the Dakota Access Pipeline to official retraction of the Trans Pacific Partnership trade agreement, which has bipartisan opposition. He met not only with a bipartisan contingent of congressional leaders, but with leaders of labor unions and the CEOs of big automakers, both of whom said good things afterward. 
Spicer made defensible claims that Democrats were playing politics with some of Trumps Cabinet nominees. Action on other of the new presidents campaign promises, such as hardening federal law against federal funding of abortions, was going forward in Congress. 
Finally, in a sober reminder of the nastiness of the culture wars, Spicers press shop issued a statement reminding us of the legitimate and necessary tradition of adults staying away from commenting about the presidents 10-year-old son, Barron. This became necessary after despicable comments about the boy were spewed online, including a crass tweet from a since-suspended Saturday Night Live writer. 
Trump looked to be forward-looking, action-oriented and a sympathetic figure as a result of all of this, even if many Americans dont agree with the direction. Thats what makes the presidents recurring focus on an unproven claim that hed have won the popular vote if there hadnt been cheating so curious. 
Is it stubbornness, a congenital need to win every single battle, or a skin so thin that even victories must be continuously affirmed? 
In the campaign, Trump legitimately questioned Barack Obamas broken promise that Americans could keep a health insurance plan if they liked it under the Affordable Care Act. Asking him to provide better proof of his voter fraud claims is holding him to the same truth standard. 
Copyright (c) 2017 St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Chuck Raasch; St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 'Raasch: By again raising dubious voter fraud claims, Trump blunts his own momentum', St. Louis Post-Dispatch (online), 25 Jan 2017 A6 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? 
