No shortage of controversy as final presidential debate arrives
Newspaper October 19, 2016 | Oklahoman, The (Oklahoma City, OK)
Author: The Oklahoman Editorial Section: Opinion 541 Words
No shortage of controversy as final presidential debate arrives
WERE election results being rigged during the Republican presidential primaries? Chris Wallace of Fox News might want to pose that question to Donald Trump during the final debate between Trump and Hillary Clinton on Wednesday night.

Trump dispatched 16 Republican challengers during the primaries, collecting more than 13 million votes along the way. His total was roughly 5.6 million more than his closest challenger, Texas Sen. Ted Cruz. Trump was happy to accept his victory as the will of Republican voters.

Yet as he slips further behind Clinton — the margin is 11 points among likely voters, according to the latest NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll — leading up to the Nov. 8 general election, Trump is alleging extensive fraud. “Of course there is large scale voter fraud happening on and before election day,” Trump tweeted Monday. “Why do Republican leaders deny what is going on? So naive!”

It is one thing for a Republican to defend the idea of voter ID laws, which require voters to show some identification before being allowed to cast a ballot and which have strong backing among members of the GOP. It's another thing altogether to suggest that “large scale voter fraud” is taking place.

This argument is in line with Trump's repeated contention that the election is rigged against him, in large part because of the media's coverage. There is no denying that the mainstream media overwhelmingly tilts leftward. Trump blames The New York Times and others for stories, written since the notorious “Access Hollywood” tape, citing women who accuse Trump of misconduct. These are, Trump insisted in a tweet Monday, “100% made up by women.” Yet it was Trump who told Billy Bush in the 2005 tape that he is “automatically attracted to beautiful (women) – I just start kissing them. It's like a magnet. Just kiss. I don't even wait.”

Given this description by Trump himself, is it really a stretch to think there might be other women through the years who have been subjected to unwanted advances?

Chris Wallace has no shortage of material to quiz Clinton about, either.

During the second debate, the moderators essentially gave her a pass regarding her use of a private email server and the mishandling of classified documents during her time as secretary of state. But several new emails have been released by WikiLeaks since then, including some that show Clinton pitching policy ideas in private that conflict with those she's promoting today in public. They merit more extensive follow-up.

So too does the FBI's release this week of records showing the State Department's undersecretary for management, Patrick F. Kennedy, asking for the FBI's help last year to change the classification level of an email from Clinton's private server, in exchange for the FBI being allowed to send more agents to foreign countries. Kennedy was a top aide to Clinton when she headed the agency.

Clinton holds a 16-point advantage over Trump in favorability, according to the RealClearPolitics average. But that's hardly worth boasting about, because both candidates' unfavorability ratings are through the roof. The seemingly never-ending controversies surrounding both candidates explain why.

Sad to say, they also lend a reality TV feel to this final debate, which, lest we forget, is supposed to help voters determine their choice for the highest office in the land.
Copyright (c) 2016 Oklahoma Publishing Company

