Democrats reversing stance on election security
Newspaper November 28, 2016 | Oklahoman, The (Oklahoma City, OK)
Author: The Oklahoman Editorial Section: Opinion 525 Words
Democrats reversing stance on election security
GRANTED, this may be a bridge too far for some partisans, but it would be nice if Democrats could at least be consistent when it comes to the issue of ballot security.

For years, Democrats have dismissed the need for voter ID laws, arguing that fraud is more myth than reality. Now, following Donald Trump's election, some Democrats are insisting the whole system is rigged.

Yet voter ID supporters have typically argued such laws are merely a sensible way to prevent fraudulent votes from being cast in an election. Every year, there are numerous examples of people who try to vote illegally. Those instances rarely involve a widespread, organized conspiracy, but it still makes sense to prevent any illegal voting. An illegal vote cancels the impact of a legitimate vote, depriving citizens of a basic right.

That doesn't seem to matter to some on the political left. In April, an anti-voter ID article at the left-wing ThinkProgress site breezily declared “voter fraud isn't a real issue in Wisconsin or elsewhere.”

In May, the Democratic Party of Wisconsin issued a statement declaring voter ID laws were a Republican attempt “to rig elections in their favor.” (That Democrats implied that invalid votes disproportionately benefited their party was telling.)

Yet now some liberals are calling for a recount in three swing states — Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania — alleging that those states' voting machines were hacked and gave Trump his victory.

It seems Democrats didn't see any fraud in Wisconsin elections until they lost one.

The fraud claim is based on a report in New York magazine that some computer scientists noted Hillary Clinton received 7 percent fewer votes in counties using electronic voting machines than in counties using optical scanners and paper ballots.

Thus, some on the political left now insist the election was stolen and (using a phrase they previously mocked) rigged.

But even New York magazine reported that the group of scientists “has not found proof of hacking or manipulation …”

Also, analysts at FiveThirtyEight (which is not a conservative website) examined this claim and concluded “statistically, it doesn't check out.” For one thing, in Michigan the “entire state uses paper ballots, which are read by optical scanners,” so the theoretical hacking wasn't even possible.

In six of eight states that used a mix of paper and machine voting, the analysts found “no apparent correlation between voting method and outcome,” and in the other two states the results were offsetting. In one state (Wisconsin), the use of voting machines appeared to boost Republican votes, but in another (Texas) the benefit went to Democrats. But in Wisconsin they found “the effect disappears” after results are weighted for population. In the 23 Wisconsin counties representing 75 percent of the state's population, there was no evidence of an impact tied to the type of voting system used.

Also, different types of voting machines are used in different parts of Wisconsin.

Thus, liberals proclaiming a stolen election must believe someone learned how to hack multiple types of voting machines but then chose to do so only in low-population Wisconsin counties.

Democratic concerns about election integrity would mean more if they were presented before election results were known and untainted by internet paranoia.
Copyright (c) 2016 Oklahoma Publishing Company

