Trump ought to focus more on his job, less on tweeting
Newspaper November 30, 2016 | Oklahoman, The (Oklahoma City, OK)
Author: The Oklahoman Editorial Section: Opinion 484 Words
Trump ought to focus more on his job, less on tweeting
IT seems President-elect Donald Trump can't get enough of Twitter, which is unfortunate for him. He needs to give his phone a rest.

Trump used 140-character blasts throughout his campaign to criticize others in the Republican primary field, and later to regularly bounce Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. He also used Twitter to take shots at people who weren't running for office, such as the parents of a fallen U.S. Army captain of Muslim descent, a judge who was involved in a Trump-related lawsuit, and — in a series of tweets famously sent in the middle of the night — a former Miss Universe who had been cited by Clinton during a debate.

Trump is at it again, this time taking to the Twitterverse on Sunday to criticize potential election recounts in three states that are being sought by — and will be paid for by — independent presidential candidate Jill Stein.

It would have been one thing for Trump to simply criticize Stein's effort, which is highly unlikely to change anything about the election. Instead, he tweeted: “In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally.”

The first part of that statement is a stretch, to put it mildly. As John J. Pitney, professor of politics at Claremont McKenna College, noted, Trump's 56.97 percent of the Electoral College votes puts his haul 46th out of the 58 elections since George Washington's time.

The back half of Trump's Tweet is especially troubling, however. To claim, without a shred of evidence to back it up, that millions of people cast ballots illegally is irresponsible. It's certainly not what you would expect to hear from the person who won the election.

Trump's communications director, when asked for evidence of Trump's claims, cited a 2014 Washington Post study on noncitizen voting and a 2012 study by Pew Research on subpar voter registration files. As Nate Cohn of The New York Times' Upshot blog noted, “Both were conducted well in advance of the election, and neither supports anything like what Mr. Trump has suggested.”

Trump asserted in another tweet Sunday: “Serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and California — so why isn't the media reporting on this? Serious bias — big problem!”

Perhaps the media isn't reporting on it because widespread problems have not been substantiated. Election board officials in all three states have flatly rejected Trump's claims. California's secretary of state called the allegations “absurd” and said they were “inappropriate and unbecoming of a president-elect.”

He's right. Recall that Trump basically stayed off Twitter in the final weeks of the campaign. We believe that helped him close the gap and eventually overtake Clinton. Whichever member of his team guided that decision needs to get Trump's ear again. The president-elect of the United States should have more important, and more responsible, things to do with his time than to second-guess an election he won.
Copyright (c) 2016 Oklahoma Publishing Company

