
Oregon needs politicians swayed by facts, not feelings (Opinion)
Newspaper December 20, 2016 | Oregonian, The: Web Edition Articles (Portland, OR)
Author: Guest Columnist Section: Opinion 543 Words
Oregon needs politicians swayed by facts, not feelings (Opinion)
Chris Frye

Oregon Rep. Mike Nearman, R-Independence, and Portland attorney James Buchal filed a proposed constitutional amendment with the Secretary of State in late August proposing a clause that would require all Oregonians to prove they're citizens of the United States before they can vote. Both Nearman and Buchal maintain that Oregon's elections are vulnerable and that voter fraud has been happening for a long time.

Nearman and Buchal's proof, however, relies more on feelings than facts. When asked about it by the Bend Bulletin, Buchal stated, "I think it's not just 2016; I think it's been happening for a long time." Nearman went on to say, "I have heard rumors," and "I don't have my doubts that it is going on at least at some level." The problem with these statements is that there is an abundant amount of research, (facts not feelings) that show the opposite of what Nearman and Buchal are claiming.

Recent national studies have shown that impersonation fraud -the only kind of voter fraud that can be stopped by requiring picture id- by voters is extremely rare. The Brennan Center's seminal report on the issue, "The Truth About Voter Fraud," reviewed elections that had been studied for voter fraud, and found incident rates between 0.00004, and 0.0009 percent. Another study done by the Washington Post found 31 reliable instances of impersonation fraud from 2000 to 2014, out of more than 1 billion ballots cast. The Bush Justice Department, following Bush's election victory over Gore, conducted a massive five-year investigation into voter fraud that resulted in only 86 convictions nationwide. And in Oregon state officials say that such fraud is rare. The Secretary of State's Office, for instance, prosecuted only 13 cases of voter fraud since 2000.

Oregon's Constitution is deserving of respect, and attempting to change the Constitution based solely off of rumors and personal feelings -- or worse yet, because of party politics -- is downright shameful. As a Republican, I know this has been a bitter political issue with people in my party claiming widespread fraud. In turn, Democrats are claiming these laws discriminate against and disenfranchise minorities, a stance that is supported by a recent study titled, "Voter Identification Laws and the Suppression of Minority Votes."

Share your opinion

Submit your essay of 500 words or less to commentary@oregonlive.com. Please include your email and phone number for verification.

Party politics has been the driving force behind almost all voter fraud legislation, and when it comes to party politics I find myself in full agreement with Thomas Jefferson. "I never submitted the whole system of my opinions to the creed of any party of men whatever in religion, in philosophy, in politics, or in anything else where I was capable of thinking for myself. Such an addiction is the last degradation of a free and moral agent."

So while my five-year-old will be wishing for her two front teeth this Christmas I'll be wishing for politicians who can think for themselves and make decisions that are governed solely by facts not feelings, and are in the best interest of Oregon.

Chris Frye lives in Sisters, Oregon.
Copyright 2016 The Oregonian. All Rights Reserved.
