
Hillary Clinton, Donald Trump count on dueling get-out-the-vote, vote-suppression efforts
Newspaper November 1, 2016 | Oregonian, The: Web Edition Articles (Portland, OR)
Author: Douglas Perry Section: Today 880 Words
Hillary Clinton, Donald Trump count on dueling get-out-the-vote, vote-suppression efforts
Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump wants his passionate backers to believe the election is rigged, that Democrats are going to flood the polls with illegal immigrants who will vote 10 times each.

That vision of massive, unprecedented Election Day fraud has helped drive participation in "poll-watching training." The Democratic Party claims Trump's planned army of poll watchers is nothing more than an attempt to sow fear among minority voters.

In fact, on Monday the party sued Trump in Arizona, Nevada, Ohio and Pennsylvania, hoping to kill off the Trump "vote-protection" movement. Democrats say the poll-watching effort is a "campaign of vigilante voter intimidation" that violates the Voting Rights Act.

A Huffington Post investigation has reported that Vote Protectors, a Republican group supposedly concerned about preventing voter fraud, has issued fake press badges to its volunteers to help them harass voters in minority neighborhoods. Another Trump-aligned group, Stop the Steal, is planning to drop volunteers into nine swing-state cities that typically vote Democratic. Their publicly-stated goal is to prevent election theft and make sure the electronic-voting machines are working properly. The Guardian newspaper reports that "polling and election law experts cast doubts on the [group's] methodology and suggested the process could be a smokescreen for voter intimidation."

The Stop the Steal website claims the Clinton campaign and the Democratic Party "intend to flood the polls with illegals. Liberal enclaves already let illegals vote in their local and state elections and now they want them to vote in the Presidential election."

Nothing about that statement is correct.

"His whole strategy is to suppress the vote," Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton said this week of her opponent. "Lots of noise. Lots of distractions."

That could be, and poll watching is only one part of the plan. There's also Project Alamo, Trump's online campaign to dampen voter turnout.

"We have three major voter-suppression operations underway," an anonymous Trump campaign operative told Bloomberg News.

This online campaign has created 100,000 different ads, with the emphasis ranging from -- depending on the audience -- Clinton's supposed secret support for the Trans-Pacific Partnership to her 1996 use of the term "super-predators." Project Alamo is pushing the ads in front of young progressives, African Americans and women, trying to make them so disgusted with Clinton and the democratic process that they will stay home on Election Day.

Democrats, meanwhile, recognize that the larger the turnout the better their chances for success. The progressive activist organization MoveOn has trained thousands of volunteers to seek out Democratic-leaning Americans and encourage them to go to the polls. Its focusing its efforts on the battleground states of Iowa, Florida, New Hampshire, Nevada, Ohio and Pennsylvania, as well as the usually Republican Arizona. The campaign has volunteers knocking on doors but also includes free bus service and a "massive texting program."

Clinton has also turned to celebrities to spotlight the importance of voting, with "Hamilton" creator Lin-Manuel Miranda, comedian Will Ferrell and others pushing young progressives and minorities to vote. Said singer Jennifer Lopez at a Florida concert for the Democratic nominee:

"This election is one of the most important in our lifetime."

-- Douglas Perry
Copyright 2016 The Oregonian. All Rights Reserved.
