
Russia, insisting it's worried about our democracy, seeks to monitor the U.S. election
Newspaper October 21, 2016 | Oregonian, The: Web Edition Articles (Portland, OR)
Author: Douglas Perry Section: Today 911 Words
Russia, insisting it's worried about our democracy, seeks to monitor the U.S. election
So it's come to this. First Russia hacked the emails of the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman John Podesta in an attempt to influence the U.S. presidential campaign. Now it's trolling us about Donald Trump's obsession with a "rigged" election.

Russia, officially concerned about the legitimacy of the U.S. election, has "sought to send monitors to U.S. polling stations for the Nov. 8 vote," USA Today reports.

U.S. poll monitors are frequently requested by countries where democracy is fragile or threatened, in large part because America's strong democratic traditions have long been the envy of much of the world. This year, however, other countries are worried about the U.S.

The Organization of American States, for one, is sending election observers to the U.S. for the first time. Among the international-cooperation group's concerns: restrictive new voter-identification laws in some states and the possibility of voter intimidation at the polls.

"The United States has never done it before," Organization of American States democracy secretary Francisco Javier Guerrero told the Washington Post, referring to the OAS' planned presence at the U.S. polls. "But of course, this is a unique election."

Russian observers will not be joining the OAS, however. The State Department rejected Russia's request to send monitors, calling it a "PR stunt." In state media reports this week, Russia trumpeted the U.S.' refusal to allow Russian poll watchers.

This is, of course, only the latest Russian provocation, which is a source of dispute in the U.S. presidential campaign. Despite receiving a classified briefing on the DNC/Podesta email hack, Trump, the Republican nominee, refuses to accept the U.S. intelligence community's conclusion that Russia is behind it. Retired Gen. Michael V. Hayden, a former CIA director, said Trump's viewpoint "defies logic."

The Republican nominee has praised Russian President Vladimir Putin during the campaign. Putin, meanwhile, appears to hold a grudge against Clinton, believing the Democratic nominee tried to bring about his downfall in 2011 when she was U.S. secretary of state and he was facing large-scale protests across Russia. "She set the tone for certain actors inside the country; she gave the signal," the Russian strongman said at the time. "They heard this signal and, with the support of the U.S. State Department, started actively doing their work."

For weeks, Trump, who is flagging in the polls, has warned that the U.S. election is "rigged" against him and that there will be massive voter fraud in inner-city communities.

"I just hear such reports about Philadelphia," he said at a rally in Pennsylvania last week. "I hear these horror shows, and we have to make sure that this election is not stolen from us and is not taken away from us."

Trump added: "This election will determine whether we remain a free nation or only the illusion of democracy."

At Wednesday's final presidential debate, he refused to say he would definitely accept the result of the election, insisting, "I'll keep you in suspense."

The next day, he again addressed his stance on the looming election result. "I would like to promise and pledge to all of my voters and supporters and to all of the people of the United States," he said, "that I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election -- if I win."

He hasn't made clear whether he was joking.

-- Douglas Perry
Copyright 2016 The Oregonian. All Rights Reserved.
