Donald Trump's dangerous vote-rigging claims a last-ditch grasp at the presidency: editorial
Newspaper October 18, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Author: Editorial Board Section: Opinion 914 Words
Donald Trump's dangerous vote-rigging claims a last-ditch grasp at the presidency: editorial
Donald Trump's ludicrous claims – without a shred of evidence – that 2016's presidential election will be rigged thanks to collusion between Democrats and the media and monkey business at the polls would be merely contemptible were they not so dangerous.

What Trump is doing -- beyond signaling that he expects to lose -- is to attack the basis of American self-government: faith in free and secret elections.

That is reckless in the extreme, especially as our country endures what may be its most contentious presidential election since 1968.

In a campaign where lies and conspiracy theories already are fanning the flames of anger and distrust, Trump's unsubstantiated accusations are the political equivalent of throwing gasoline on a fire.

The election is absolutely being rigged by the dishonest and distorted media pushing Crooked Hillary - but also at many polling places - SAD

— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 16, 2016

Republican vice presidential nominee Mike Pence, the governor of Indiana, surely knew he was playing a dangerous game when he said in Columbus this week, as quoted by cleveland.com's Jeremy Pelzer, that Trump supporters should volunteer to be poll watchers "in a respectful way" to "ensure the integrity of the vote."

Mike Pence warns of 'voter fraud' during Columbus rally

To some misguided voters, ensuring "the integrity of the vote" must sound like code for making sure Trump wins.

A number of GOP officials, to their shame, have tried to minimize the fecklessness of Trump's remarks, as Pence chose to do.

Others, to their credit, have quickly stepped forward to squash this nonsense.

As Ohio's Republican secretary of state, Jon Husted, told The New York Times, it is "wrong and engaging in irresponsible rhetoric" for a candidate, in the absence of any evidence, to claim election fraud. It's a position Husted has held since Trump first raised the specter of rigged votes a few months back.

August: 'Rigged' election? Ohio elections chief Jon Husted begs to differ.

And before anyone starts citing the customary suite of urban legends about electoral irregularities, it is an incontestable fact that voter fraud is extremely rare. In 2012, the News21 investigative project at Arizona State University's journalism school found that there had been 2,068 alleged cases of voter fraud in the United States since 2000. That is, "while fraud has occurred, the rate is infinitesimal."

About our editorials

Editorials express the view of the editorial board of cleveland.com and The Plain Dealer -- the senior leadership and editorial-writing staff. As is traditional, editorials are unsigned and intended to be seen as the voice of the news organization.

• Talk about the topic of this editorial in the comments below.

• Send a letter to the editor, which will be considered for print publication.

• Email general questions or comments about the editorial board to Elizabeth Sullivan, opinion director for cleveland.com.

As for impersonation – someone trying to vote using another's identity – News21 found only 10 cases over 12 years, representing "one out of about every 15 million prospective voters."

Regarding rigging the vote count and voting systems, Ohio's election machinery makes that nearly impossible. Ohio elections are run county by county by four-member boards of elections composed of two Democrats and two Republicans.

That is, there are 176 pairs of Republican eyes, and 176 pairs of Democratic eyes -- a total of 352 keenly politically aware people -- watching Ohio's count, and its voting machines. Human nature being what it is, it would be virtually impossible for any attempted impropriety to go undiscovered.

And nationally, in roughly 40 of the 50 states, secretaries of state such as Ohio's Husted serve as their states' chief election officers. Republicans – members of the party that nominated Trump – are a majority.

Incontestably, there's troubling -- albeit limited -- recent evidence of U.S. voter database hacking, or attempted hacking, suspected to have originated in Russia, a country led by Vladimir Putin, someone for whom Trump has expressed high regard.

But as InfoWorld columnist Roger A. Grimes wrote last month. "The good news is that voting machines are not connected to the internet, so physical access is required to hack them."

True, as Grimes added, "If you can get to them [voting machines], they're easy to hack." But "each physical hack adds to the risk of discovery, and you'd need to hit enough machines in the right places without detection to shift an election's outcome."

And that, to borrow what Joe McCarthy said in another context, could require a "conspiracy on a scale so immense as to dwarf any previous such venture in the history of man" – a conspiracy that could only succeed if no one talked, and if no one were vigilant.

Elections officials are vigilant. And they are, themselves, watched by others.

The idea that there is a conspiracy to cheat Trump supporters of victory is an idea that resides primarily in the mind, and guile, of Trump himself, as he apparently seeks to win at all costs -- or to find a reason, other than his own flawed campaign, if he does not.

Have something to say about this topic? Use the comments to share your thoughts, and stay informed when readers reply to your comments by using the Notification Settings (in blue) just below.
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
