In Monday's Electoral College vote on Donald Trump, electors should have right to their own judgments: Ken Sullivan (Opinion)
Newspaper December 18, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Author: Guest Columnist/cleveland.com Section: Opinion 724 Words
In Monday's Electoral College vote on Donald Trump, electors should have right to their own judgments: Ken Sullivan (Opinion)
Ken Sullivan

CLEVELAND -- Donald Trump recently assured Sean Hannity that his Supreme Court nominee would be chosen from a group of constitutional "originalists." During his second presidential debate with Hillary Clinton this fall, Trump called deceased Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, the most influential originalist of the last century, a "great judge," promising to appoint a Supreme Court justice "in the mold" of Scalia.

Perhaps Trump should look more closely at the original text of Federalist Paper No. 68, Alexander Hamilton's timeless explanation of the need for the Electoral College.

Trump recently filed a motion to intervene in a Colorado lawsuit brought by two members of the Electoral College. This lawsuit seeks a declaration that "faithless elector" laws -- state laws binding electors to the candidates who received the most votes in their states -- are unconstitutional.

Christopher Murray, Trump's attorney in the case, erroneously characterized the filing as an attempt to prevent the electors from "undermining the Electoral College."

Hamilton did not wish for electors to merely rubber stamp the choice of the people. Rather, they were to analyze "a judicious combination of all the reasons and inducements which were proper to govern their choice."

Related view: Gov. John Kasich can help slam the Electoral College door on Donald Trump: Claude Goldenberg (Opinion)

To Hamilton, making the electors the "immediate agents in the election" of the president, "deputed by the society for the single purpose of making the important choice," had several advantages.

First, an "intermediate body of electors" would serve as a firewall against "the desire in foreign powers to gain an improper ascendance in our councils."

This justification is especially prescient in light of last week's revelations that Vladimir Putin appears to have been personally involved in clandestine Russian efforts to influence the U.S. presidential election. Without the Electoral College, Hamilton worried that a geopolitical rival might raise "a creature of their own to the chief magistracy of the Union."

Second, the Electoral College could guard against voter fraud. Hamilton himself expressed concern about the possibility of citizens being "tampered with beforehand to prostitute their votes."

While there appears to be no factual basis for Trump's recent claim that he "won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally," shouldn't he, as an avowed originalist, desire the careful and independent deliberation of the electors just in case?

Third, Hamilton expressed confidence that the Electoral College would ensure "that the office of President will never fall to the lot of any man who is not in an eminent degree endowed with the requisite qualifications." Otherwise, "talents for low intrigue, and the little arts of popularity, may suffice to elevate a man."

Donald Trump would be the first U.S. president with no political or military experience. He was the first major party nominee not to release his tax returns since the 1970s. He boasts of his business career, yet has filed for corporate bankruptcy four times.

March: What I learned suing Donald Trump: Pat Sullivan (Opinion)

It is imperative for the vigor of the American republic that the Electoral College be permitted to function autonomously in the discerning, dispassionate manner that Hamilton intended. He hoped merely that the electors would vote "for some fit person as President."

To close with Hamilton's own assessment of the Electoral College's efficacy, I submit that "if the manner of it be not perfect, it is at least excellent."

Ken Sullivan is a history teacher at a Cleveland-area high school. He is expressing his personal views, not necessarily those of his employer, in this op-ed. He is a 2013 graduate of Vanderbilt Law School.

********

Have something to say about this topic? Use the comments to share your thoughts, and stay informed when readers reply to your comments by using the Notification Settings (in blue) just below.
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
