Trump's parody will hurt conservatives for a long time: Kevin O'Brien
Newspaper October 21, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The: Web Edition Articles (Cleveland, OH)
Author: Kevin OBrien, The Plain Dealer Section: Obrien 742 Words
Trump's parody will hurt conservatives for a long time: Kevin O'Brien
Chris O'Meara / Associated Press

This election isn't rigged; the Republican candidate is — to self-destruct.

Ideally, the explosion would be fatal only to Donald Trump's political career and the smithereens would be so tiny that historians equipped with electron microscopes couldn't detect them.

But this is 2016 and "ideally" applies only to Hillary Clinton, who is running against the only Republican who can't beat her.

Even if they play their cards perfectly, constitutionalists will spend the next 20 years digging out of the rubble of a campaign they have opposed from the beginning.

A Hillary Clinton presidency should quickly return some sort of Republican Party to reasonably good health, since an enthusiastic nationwide search for her successor will begin Nov. 9 and the GOP will still be the first place to look.

But what the party will stand for and who will compose its rank and file remain to be seen. Even if it purges misinformed populism, Trump will be a millstone around its neck for generations to come.

His most outlandish pronouncements will be portrayed as defining the Republican and conservative mainstream. That Trump has never subscribed to, represented or even understood conservative, constitutionalist principles will matter not one bit.

Here's a sampling of specific issues on which the smart policies of the right will now be a tougher sell.

Trade: If Trump understands it, he's lying about it. Free trade is a "yuuuuge" net positive. It's true that it can injure a certain person or a certain town at a certain time, but for nations that break down trade barriers, it's a healthy economic force multiplier in the long run. Republican officeholders, in general, realize that. Some, however, will be fearful of telling their constituents the truth: that they should be outworking and outthinking the rest of the world every day, not crying for protectionism. You win by winning, not by whining.

Immigration: Trump got the country's attention, then squandered his chance to do some good. He made the issue about a wall, when a physical barrier would be only minimally effective. He made it about Mexican law breakers when he should have made it about American law enforcement. If we solve the problem of illegal immigration, it will be by making it exceedingly painful for employers to hire people who are here illegally, by cracking down on visa overstays and by walling off not the Mexican border, but the welfare state. A country with a minimum wage and a generous welfare state has to be vigilant on illegal immigration. Trump has made that fundamental economic truth easier for opponents of immigration law enforcement to dismiss: "Oh, whatever. You're just a bigot, like Trump."

Domestic terrorism: Between Trump's proposal for a ban on Muslim immigration and Clinton's "let's be nice to refugees" stands a sane, sensible approach. Immigrants should be carefully profiled and rigorously vetted. No reliable documents, no entry. No reliable sponsor, no entry. The ones who want to come from Muslim countries should face an especially tough process. And if a prospective immigrant's presence here would not clearly benefit the United States, there's no reason to let him in.

Entitlements: Trump's populist contention that Social Security and Medicare are just dandy the way they are is as ludicrous as it is craven. Entitlements are devouring the federal budget. The population is aging. Work force participation is shrinking. Debt of all sorts is growing. The government has made a lot of promises it can't keep. Trump has irresponsibly given his supporters license to believe otherwise.

Election security: Voter fraud has been around forever and it's never going away. Democrats love to deny it since they've been the known beneficiaries lately, but maybe they should think back to 2000, when George W. Bush won Florida by only 537 votes. Might some of those votes have come from the 68,000 "Floridians" who were also registered in Georgia or North Carolina? We know people are registered in more than one state, that dead people vote, that people vote multiple times and that in rare cases, candidates have stuffed the ballot box — I'm looking at you, Sen. Lyndon B. Johnson. There will always be motives to cheat. We ought to do everything we can to diminish the opportunity.

That's by no means a complete list of Trump-inflicted wounds. And the list will only grow.

To the reflexive cries of "racism!" "sexism!" and "McCarthyism!" that have long greeted every issue the left prefers not to discuss rationally, "Trumpism!" has been added.

Nice going, Republicans.

O'Brien is The Plain Dealer's deputy editorial page editor.
Copyright 2016 The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
