Journalists not plotting against Trump
Newspaper October 23, 2016 | Plain Dealer, The (Cleveland, OH)
Author: George Rodrigue Section: News 2100 Words
Page: E1
Journalists not plotting against Trump
Donald Trump says “the media” are part of a conspiracy against him, involving at least the Clinton campaign, the FBI, international bankers, and the government of Iraq.

I have a different theory: Journalists are reporting on Trump because he has said and done newsworthy things, and because our mission is to tell the truth and look out for our readers.

To explain, I’ll need to discuss the scrutiny journalists have given both candidates, and why equal levels of investigation have not produced identical results.

I’ll start with an easy one. Trump says journalists reported on allegations of his groping women because they wanted to help Hillary Clinton. I recall that:

He was caught on a tape from 2005 saying that he kissed and grabbed the genitalia of women he didn’t know, because as a celebrity he could “do anything.”

During a debate, he was asked three times about whether he had sexually assaulted women. Finally, he denied doing so.

Following the debate, multiple women said he had kissed them or groped them, and several former beauty contestants said he had walked into their dressing room while they were disrobed — something else he had bragged about doing.

Reporters verified that most of those women had told friends or relatives of the assaults months or years ago. One woman’s story was corroborated by six people.

Conventional wisdom urges candidates in tough situations to apologize and then move on, hoping the story will be forgotten. Instead, Trump called the women “horrible, horrible liars,” too unattractive to assault. Then he falsely claimed the allegations had been “debunked.”

When you’re running for president and you do those things, reporters have a professional obligation to take note.

In response to that coverage, Trump tells his supporters that journalists are part of a “conspiracy against you, the American people.” That’s a nice bit of rhetorical deflection, but, again, it’s false.

Speaking only for The Plain Dealer, I’d say that local news organizations are creatures of their communities. We care relatively little about national politicians. We live and work here in Cleveland. We recognize that many of Trump’s supporters have genuine concerns that deserve serious attention.

Part of our role is to help our readers evaluate how well candidates would solve those problems.

For some reporting, we rely on national news organizations. From The New York Times to The Associated Press to FactCheck .org and Politifact, hundreds of journalists have looked at the candidates’ pasts and at their plans for the future.

Both sides have been given equivalent scrutiny. If results varied, that’s because the candidates are different people, with different values and different records.

Backgrounding Clinton

Clinton has a well-known past, thanks partly to years of investigations mounted by her Republican opponents. Even with the hacked email dumps from her campaign, nothing discovered lately has fundamentally changed our understanding of her.

She’s a centrist Democrat with a carefully scripted persona, whose talents for hard work and preparation far exceed her public charisma. She is neither a natural politician nor a paragon of transparency.

She doesn’t preach revolution; she talks about making the system work better. In a secret recording released this year, she told supporters she wanted to be careful not to promise too much.

She took a lot of money to speak to Wall Street bankers, and certainly did not try to offend them. To voters who think she’s too cozy with Wall Street, that may be more than just a little bit alarming. But hacked documents say she also defended the need for financial regulation during her remarks to the bankers, and as a senator she called for tighter supervision of the industry before the financial meltdown of 2008.

Has she taken contradictory positions publicly and privately? Trump says so. The rest of us have to reach our own conclusions. During Wednesday’s debate, which touched upon immigration, he accused her of telling bankers that she favored “open borders.” She replied that she was talking about open borders not for immigration, but for trade in energy. Factcheck .org agreed, and Politifact called Trump’s claim mostly false.

Backgrounding Trump

Trump proclaims that the nation is broken and says, “I alone can fix it.” He promises to bring back jobs, restore prosperity, wall off the border, end urban violence immediately, and save American democracy. He has never held elective or appointive office, and refuses to release his tax returns. His claim to qualification is his business record, so, journalists have explored it.

Back in the 1990s, he induced ordinary Americans to invest in his first publicly traded company, Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts. At the time, he owned a group of casinos for which he had paid too much and borrowed too much, at too high an interest rate. (An analyst on Wall Street had warned about this. Trump got him fired.) He began selling those albatross properties to the publicly traded company. Effectively acting as both buyer and seller, he transferred enormous debt onto stockholders.

The publicly traded firm lost money every year under Trump’s leadership, but Trump made at least $44 million in salary and bonuses. He took a $7 million bonus the year the stockholders lost 70 percent of their investment value. He called it all a great success. “The money I took out of there was incredible,” he said.

In 2005, he founded Trump University. Before it collapsed under a barrage of fraud allegations, it created a “playbook” for its staff. It urged salespeople to learn what most pained the men and women who were thinking about buying its costly real estate courses.

“The more a problem hurts,” it said, “the more they’ll be prepared to pay for a speedy solution.” It urged staffers to “Collect personalized information that you can utilize at closing time. For example: Are they a single parent of three children that need money for food?”

Trump has been sued by hundreds of former contractors who say his companies stiffed them. Surveying the wreckage in Atlantic City, The New York Times quoted Steven P. Perskie, who was New Jersey’s top casino regulator in the 1990s. “He put a number of local contractors and suppliers out of business when he didn’t pay them,” Perskie said.

Trump tells his blue-collar supporters, “I am your voice.” At various times, that voice has said that wages are too high, that the minimum wage should not be raised, and that Social Security should be at least partly privatized. (His platform now says that Social Security should not be cut.)

We have published stories about both candidates’ professional backgrounds because we believe that citizens deserve to know what the candidates have done, as well as what they say.

Comparing charitable foundations

Reporters have also closely scrutinized charities connected to each candidate: the Clinton Foundation and the Trump Foundation.

The Clinton Foundation gets top marks from charity-rating agencies. It spends about 90 cents of every donated dollar doing things like fighting HIV and malaria.

News organizations searched reams of records for signs of what Trump calls “pay to play” deals. They found that some foundation donors, but not all, were able to meet with Hillary Clinton when she was secretary of state.

There is evidence that Clinton’s staff abided by the letter, but not necessarily the spirit, of the conflict-of-interest “firewall” the Obama administration established when she became secretary of state. There is no compelling evidence, so far as I know, that any donor got any favors beyond conversation, or that the Clintons benefited financially from any donations.

The Trump Foundation collected funds illegally, and violated Internal Revenue Service rules when it gave $25,000 to a super PAC supporting Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi, whose office later chose not to join a civil suit against Trump University. Bondi’s office said there was no connection. The Trump Foundation falsely told the IRS that it had given the donation to a similarly named group in another state.

Despite rules against using charitable dollars for personal benefit, the Trump Foundation also paid to acquire a 6-foot portrait of Donald Trump, which apparently was then displayed in one of Trump’s golf clubs. And the foundation appeared to pay off at least one of Trump’s legal settlements.

Comparing policies

In addition to exploring the candidates’ backgrounds, journalists have evaluated their policy proposals.

During a discussion of tax policy in the second presidential debate, Trump said that Clinton was working for her big-dollar donors, while he was looking out for ordinary Americans. Mathematically speaking, he got that backward.

Trump calls for a huge tax cut, estimated to increase the federal debt over the next 10 years by $7.2 trillion. The nonpartisan Tax Policy Center found that his proposals would cut tax rates for the top 0.1 percent of taxpayers by $1.1 million per year on average, or 14 percent. The tax cut for middle-income taxpayers would be about $1,010, or 1.8 percent.

Clinton calls for a tax increase to fund infrastructure improvements, subsidize college tuition, and expand early childhood education, among other things. Clinton’s plan would raise taxes on the top 0.1 percent of taxpayers by 10.8 percent. She would cut taxes on lower earners by 0.7 percent, and on middle-income earners by 0.2 percent.

Trump says his business experience enables him to create jobs. Experts have evaluated both his economic plans and Clinton’s. Neither plan will ever be enacted. Congress decides such things, not the president. And any long-term economic forecast involves huge uncertainties. Still, a comparison can illustrate the candidates’ intentions.

Last summer, Moody’s Analytics estimated that Trump’s plan would push the country into recession, with a 7.3 percent unemployment rate by 2021. By 2026, it would cost the economy an estimated 10 million jobs relative to current law.

Clinton’s plan, Moody’s said, would accelerate economic growth and add more than 3 million jobs to currently projected growth.

Trump’s plan has since been amended, but summer is the last time for which I can find a comprehensive, all-in review of both candidates’ ideas. There’s an interesting side debate about the political leanings of Moody’s highly respected chief economist, Mark Zandi.

The big picture

Overall, according to one tally of PolitiFact findings, Trump has been among the least truthful candidates in this election cycle. During one week, he uttered a falsehood once every three minutes and 15 seconds of public speaking. He frequently repeats long-discredited claims.

Clinton, by comparison, has been on the high side of Politifact’s accuracy scale. Her misstatements were fewer in number, and tended to involve her efforts to spin the story of her private email server. Trump continues to insist that she should be jailed for that. FBI Director James Comey disagrees. He wrote a memo to FBI staff saying, “At the end of the day, the case itself was not a cliff-hanger; despite all the chest-beating by people no longer in government, there really wasn’t a prosecutable case.”

Last week, Trump claimed that there was an illegal “quid pro quo” conversation between bureaucrats at the State Department and the FBI concerning one of Clinton’s emails. When reporters looked into this, they found no quid pro quo, and no actions. Fact checkers called Trump’s claims “false and grossly inflated.”

Citing voter-fraud claims refuted by everyone from Politifact to FactCheck .org to USA Today, Trump claims that the election is rigged against him. In Wednesday’s debate he did not promise to accept the election results. On Thursday he said he would accept them, if he won.

Some Republican leaders pushed back. Gov. John Kasich called Trump’s claim “a big, fat joke … like saying we never landed on the moon, frankly.” Jon Husted, Ohio’s secretary of state, said it was “wrong and engaging in irresponsible rhetoric” to question the integrity of elections with no evidence of wrongdoing.

It’s understandable that a politician trailing badly in the polls would claim an election is “rigged.” And yet, gracious acceptance of election results is one of the customs that binds us together as a nation. It is essential to the peaceful transfer of power. That is why Republican and Democratic leaders alike worry about allowing candidates to delegitimize democratic institutions.

It’s equally understandable that a fact-challenged politician would attack the reporters who challenge him. Indeed, debate is healthy, if the politician addresses individual issues. That give-and-take can illuminate the things that matter to voters.

It is another thing entirely for a candidate to regularly ignore the facts, or to categorically delegitimize the journalists who try to keep campaigns honest, by repeatedly throwing out unsupported charges that they are biased, or disgusting, or slime, or scum.

Until this election, acceptance of basic facts, however grudgingly, was another one of the unwritten rules of modern American politics. Failure to honor that tradition is potentially toxic for democracy, because it leaves us with no common ground for understanding, or even debate.

Rodrigue is the editor and general manager of The Plain Dealer
Copyright, 2016, The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved.
