
Cast your vote, cast aside trumped up claims of voter fraud
Newspaper October 23, 2016 | Post and Courier, The: Web Edition Articles (Charleston, SC)
Author: Brian Hicks Section: Columnists 689 Words

Gov. Nikki Haley finally, reluctantly, jumped back into this deplorable muck of a presidential election last week.

With good reason.

"This election is not rigged and it is irresponsible to say that it is," Haley said Thursday.

As Emma Dumain reported, the governor was quickly joined by a chorus of the state's other Republican leaders including Sens. Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott, congressman Mark Sanford and state GOP Chairman Matt Moore.

What kind of bizarro world is this when Republicans in one of the reddest states in the country feel compelled to contradict their party's presidential nominee?

Dorothy, we aren't in Kansas anymore.

This shouldn't be an issue, but someone is trailing in the polls so badly he's resorted to claiming that, if he loses, it means the election is rigged.

No, it doesn't.

"If he loses, it will not be because the system is 'rigged' but because he failed as a candidate," Graham said.

That's right. The reason all these elected officials have spoken out is because, well, suggesting otherwise is practically unpatriotic.

And anyone who believes there is widespread voter fraud in this country apparently doesn't visit their polling place very often.

Your ID, please?

Absentee voting in South Carolina just finished its second week, and turnout is pretty similar to 2012.

That should restore a little faith because, given some of the choices this year, it wouldn't be a surprise if a lot of folks just stayed home.

But people are voting, and they can report one thing with certainty: You can't waltz into a polling place, claim to be John C. Calhoun and get a ballot.

You will be asked for your driver's license or another state-issued photo ID. Poll workers find your name on the master list of registered voters, compare addresses and then have you sign the roll. If there is any question at all, you sign an affidavit.

Joe Debney, executive director of the Charleston County Board of Elections and Voter Registration, said "There's a ton of checks and balances."

"We do it out of an abundance of caution, not because there have been problems," Debney noted.

The State Election Commission and all the counties voter boards work with the Department of Homeland Security, the FBI, SLED and a National Guard cyber-security group to make sure everything is on the up-and-up. There are representatives of both parties at every precinct (which means there's no reason for anyone else to meddle).

Hey, the voting machines are not even connected to the internet.

After the state Department of Revenue was hacked a few years back, the Election Commission volunteered for an audit of its system to make sure no one could crack it. These folks are professional. Claims that busloads of people are hauled in to vote is an insult to them, and the country.

But people believe what they want to believe, and discount everything else — even a thousand polls.

Dead people voting?

Several years ago, South Carolina Republicans raised the specter of election fraud while pushing legislation to require photo IDs to vote.

They won, and the state now has stricter voting laws. But SLED investigated nearly 1,000 alleged instances of voter fraud — compiled as as proof that new laws were needed — and determined that not one of those claims was real fraud.

Chris Whitmire with the State Election Commission, says there are occasional instances of voter fraud. Usually, it's like those guys in Marlboro County who were trading cigarettes and drugs for people's absentee ballots.

Or the time that registration drive-workers just started signing up people out of the phone book ... because they were paid a commission.

You know what those things have in common? They were small-time, and they were caught almost immediately. Rigging an election on a national level would be nearly impossible.

And as Moore said, most of the battleground states this year are run by the GOP.

Election officials say there are people on both sides of the aisle who don't trust the process. No facts or assurance will matter to the conspiracy-minded. Even if it is unpatriotic.

Truth is, some people look for any justification to complain because they don't like the final score.
Copyright, 2016, The Post and Courier. All Rights Reserved.
