
Trump should drop his bad tweeting habit
Newspaper December 1, 2016 | Post and Courier, The: Web Edition Articles (Charleston, SC)
Author: Staff Writer Section: Editorials 366 Words

Donald Trump is just one of the millions of Americans who routinely, rapidly and all too often rashly express themselves on Twitter. But he's the only one who will be sworn in as president on Jan. 20.

And while Mr. Trump has tried to reassure the nation — and the world — that his presidential policies won't necessarily follow some of the radical rhetoric he delivered on the campaign trail, his bad Twitter habit is undermining that calming mission.

For instance, Mr. Trump tweeted Sunday:

"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally."

Though contained in the 140-character limit for a single tweet, that message was wrong on two counts: Mr. Trump's apparent margin of 306-232 is far from a landslide by Electoral College standards.

And his contention that Hillary Clinton's popular-vote lead of 2.4 million (and rising) stems from massive voter fraud is preposterous.

On Tuesday, Mr. Trump was at it again, tweeting in angry response to a flag burning at Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., during a Nov. 10 protest of his victory:

"Nobody should be allowed to burn the American flag — if they do, there must be consequences — perhaps loss of citizenship or year in jail!"

However, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in the 1989 Texas v. Johnson case that flag burning is a form of protest protected by the First Amendment. Though the margin was a slim 5-4, constitutional conservative stalwart Antonin Scalia was among the justices voting in the majority.

Justice Anthony Kennedy, who remains a frequent swing vote on the court, rightly wrote in his concurrence to the outcome: "It is poignant but fundamental that the flag protects those who hold it in contempt."

You don't have to agree with that opinion to respect the court's authority in that case.

Yes, Mr. Trump was elected despite — or maybe even because of? — his often unseemly tweets during the campaign, including several criticizing a former beauty queen for gaining weight.

But he's now our president-elect.

And unless he restrains his evidently powerful urge to send hasty, ill-advised tweets, serious doubts about his temperamental fitness for the presidency will linger.
Copyright, 2016, The Post and Courier. All Rights Reserved.
