
Vote recount unwarranted
Newspaper November 30, 2016 | Post and Courier, The (Charleston, SC)
Section: A 568 Words
Page: 012

Extremely close elections are often recounted to assure an accurate final outcome.

The North Carolina gubernatorial race is a case in point. As of Tuesday, three weeks after the election, Republican incumbent Pat McCrory still trailed Democrat Roy Cooper by fewer than 10,000 votes out of more than 4.6 million cast. That minute margin of roughly 0.2 percent gives Gov. McCrory the legal right to demand a recount, which he has.

But approving Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein’s calls for recounts of the presidential votes in Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan would be a waste of time. Unfortunately, though, Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton has joined Dr. Stein in those requests.

Republican nominee Donald Trump is about than 22,000 votes ahead of Mrs. Clinton in Wisconsin - a lead of about 1 percent. of the total. Wisconsin State Elections Commission Mark Thompson, a Democrat, noting that the last statewide recount, in 2011, changed only 300 votes, said, “I don’t doubt” that Mr. Trump will emerge the winner after a recount.

Dr. Stein finished a very distant fourth in Wisconsin and nationally, in both cases with little more than 1 percent of the vote. Libertarian nominee Gary Johnson was third nationally with about 3.4 percent.

Yet when informed Monday that the Wisconsin Elections Commission had turned down her request for a hand recount in that state, Dr. Stein said she would sue.

Yes, Mr. Trump’s lead in Michigan is quite slim - around 10,000 votes, which is 0.2 percent. However, he has a 70,000-vote advantage in Pennsylvania - more than 1 percent. And Mrs. Clinton would have to win recounts in all three states (Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin) to defeat Mr. Trump in the Electoral College, which after all, determines who wins the presidency.

Dr. Stein says she is acting in the best interests of democracy. But democracy also requires accepting election results except in very close elections where a decision hangs on just a few votes one way or the other.

For example, in 2000 the two major-party nominees were separated by just 537 votes out of nearly 6 million cast in Florida, and George W. Bush’s election ultimately turned on a recount in that decisive state - and a ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court.

In contrast, Mrs. Clinton’s decision to call for recounts is dubious, especially after she graciously conceded the election to Mr. Trump on Nov. 9.

President-elect Trump also muddied the post-election waters on Sunday by tweeting the ridiculous assertion that he lost the popular vote due to widespread voter fraud.

Adding to the political farce, Dr. Stein has said Mrs. Clinton shouldn’t have butted in to join her recount petition.

Nevertheless, Mrs. Clinton has now joined Dr. Stein’s push for recounts. That’s the same Democratic nominee who late in the campaign rightly condemned, as “horrifying,” Mr. Trump’s reckless warning the election might be “rigged.”

Backers of Dr. Stein and Mrs. Clinton have even alleged that there might have been tampering with voting machines in Wisconsin, suggesting a Russian plot to corrupt the election. President Barack Obama has dismissed these fears, presumably on the basis of good intelligence about purported Russian involvement and the ability to actually change vote totals by remote access.

Casting unwarranted doubt on the presidential election’s result only prolongs the divisive animus of an extraordinarily bitter race. Mrs. Clinton should revert to her original - and admirable - concession after finishing second.

Mr. Trump should stop crying foul over an election that he won.

And Dr. Stein should get out of the way.
Copyright, 2016, The Post and Courier. All Rights Reserved.
