
No, the election's not rigged
Newspaper October 17, 2016 | Post and Courier, The: Web Edition Articles (Charleston, SC)
Author: Staff Writer Section: News 455 Words

Donald Trump tweeted on Sunday: "The election is absolutely being rigged by the dishonest and distorted media pushing Crooked Hillary — but also at many polling places — SAD."

Actually, pre-emptive sore-loser whining is sad.

Yes, Mr. Trump has a valid case against some major media outlets that have been playing favorites in this race by focusing sharply on his alleged misdeeds while often giving Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton a relative pass on hers (see Debra Saunders' column on today's Commentary page).

But Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush weren't exactly darlings of the liberal media, either. And they combined for a 5-1 record in presidential elections.

As for Mr. Trump's reckless contention that polling places will be rigged against him, that goes far beyond an early alibi for what many analysts now foresee as his defeat three weeks from today.

That baseless accusation feeds the dangerous myth that Mrs. Clinton will win the presidential election outcome via a fraudulent process.

And that sets the stage for even more widespread distrust by the electorate in our self-governing system.

At least Mr. Trump's running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, sounded a more responsible note on Sunday when he said on multiple television shows: "We will absolutely accept the results of the election."

Unfortunately, that didn't stop Mr. Trump from tweeting on Monday:

"Of course there is large-scale voter fraud happening on and before Election Day. Why do Republican leaders deny what is going on? So naive!"

You don't have to oppose reasonable voter ID laws to realize that Mr. Trump's claim of "large-scale" voter fraud is vastly overstated.

Yet you would have to be naive to not know many dismayed Americans are still struggling with these options in the presidential race:

Vote for the proverbial "lesser of evils" between Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton, vote for a non-major-party candidate like Libertarian nominee Gary Johnson, or not cast a ballot in the White House contest at all.

Presidential elections predictably dominate public attention, and this is especially true in an antagonistic competition that began more than a year ago.

Still, voters here and across the nation should realize that this general election isn't just about choosing our next president.

It's about deciding other important races for federal, state and local elective offices.

That's certainly true here. And no, the process isn't "rigged."

The results, though, will not have your input unless you vote.

So if you haven't made up your mind on your presidential choice, and if you can stomach Wednesday night's final debate, watch it to see whether Mr. Trump, Mrs. Clinton or neither rates your vote.

And if you're among the many Americans understandably disillusioned by the Trump-Clinton slugfest, remember, there are other crucial contests on the ballot.
Copyright, 2016, The Post and Courier. All Rights Reserved.
