
Undermining public’s faith in our elections
Newspaper December 1, 2016 | Providence Journal (RI)
Section: RI Opinion 592 Words
Article Page: 14

The peaceful transfer of power is one of the glories of America’s system of free elections. Unfortunately, the antics of politicians from both sides of the aisle in recent days cannot help but undermine public confidence in the integrity of the process.

Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton and President Barack Obama all behaved well in the hours and days after the election, when the vote indicated Mr. Trump would overwhelmingly win the Electoral College. They were gracious to their adversaries and urged citizens to accept the results.

Unfortunately, some of that has fallen by the wayside.

Now, conspiracy theorists are speculating without any real evidence that the Russians somehow hacked into voting machines and managed to switch the election results — something experts say is next to impossible, given the protections built in. (See “Almost no chance the election was hacked,” news, Nov. 29.)

Jill Stein, the Green Party candidate who received a tiny percentage of the vote, has pressed for recounts in three states that Mr. Trump narrowly carried over Ms. Clinton. She raised more than $7 million in a matter of days to fund this exercise — far more than she raised during her entire campaign for president. Hillary Clinton’s campaign, while citing no “actionable evidence” of vote hacking, said it would join in the effort.

There is limited time to get such a recount done before the Electoral College meets on Dec. 19 to formally elect the next president.

Few think recounts would flip the outcome in these states, since the margins number in the tens of thousands rather than in the dozens or hundreds one finds in the very rare cases where results are overturned. And Ms. Clinton would need to do that in all three states. The chances of changing the election outcome are very close to nil — at a cost of sowing continued doubts in the public’s mind about the legitimacy of our elections.

As for the hacking theory, President Obama has declared that his experts found no sign of it. And the recounts seem unlikely to turn up evidence of hacking, since computer scientists would be needed to do that.

Meanwhile, Mr. Trump again displayed his penchant for recklessly damaging America’s reputation. He tweeted out on Sunday: “In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally.”

While it is always possible that some undocumented immigrants or others voted illegally, his statement was entirely without foundation in facts.

This followed Mr. Trump’s warnings during the campaign that the election system might be “rigged” against him, presumably through some form of tampering. He is now the president-elect and should not be disparaging our elections without solid evidence.

By all means, it is vitally important that states apply safeguards to this system to minimize the potential for voter fraud or the miscounting of citizens’ actual votes. Paper ballots are a strong protection, since they are physical records and may be recounted. Our society should be working between elections to make sure our system is as perfect as possible.

But, in the immediate aftermath of a hotly contested election, recounts based on flimsy conspiracy theories coupled with knee-jerk tweets about election fraud by the president-elect can only sow doubts about our entire system.

At times, President Obama has seemed like the only grownup in the room. He has thrown cold water on the idea that the election was hacked and urged everyone to move forward, obviously recognizing that disparaging the American system without evidence does no one any good.
Copyright © 2016 Providence Journal, All Rights Reserved.
