
Editorial - A vindication of sorts for Voter ID in Virginia
Newspaper December 19, 2016 | Richmond Times-Dispatch: Web Edition Articles (VA)
Author: Staff Writer Section: Opinion 335 Words

A lot of molten rhetoric greeted legislation to impose photo-ID requirements at Virginia polling places. Opponents called it "a direct attack on our democracy," "fundamentally unpatriotic," a continuation of Virginia's "ugly history," and more. Virginia's occasional Attorney General Mark Herring, who opposed the measure as a legislator, refused to defend it against a lawsuit brought by a Democratic law firm.

Last week, a unanimous panel on the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals found it constitutional.

Earlier this year a different panel on the same court struck down a North Carolina voter-ID law that, it said, showed a clear intent to discriminate against minorities and other traditionally Democratic voting blocs.

Virginia's law showed no such intent, the court ruled: "In this case, the evidence of racially discriminatory intent is . . . lacking. SB 1256 was enacted to streamline Virginia's election laws by imposing on all voters the requirements that [the federal Help America Vote Act] imposes on some. Moreover, in enacting a photo identification requirement, the Virginia legislature went out of its way to make its impact as burden-free as possible. It allowed a broad scope of IDs to qualify; it provided free IDs to those who did not have a qualifying ID; it issued free IDs without any requirement of presenting documentation; and it provided numerous locations throughout the State where free IDs could be obtained."

Likewise, the court found that — contrary to doom-and-gloom predictions — the law had a vanishingly small effect on actual voters.

Does this make the photo-ID requirement good policy? No. Instances of voter fraud are rare, and instances of voter impersonation rarer still. The commonwealth spent nearly $2 million distributing new voter registration cards and publicizing the change in the law — all to address a nearly nonexistent problem. (Outside legal fees for defense of the law have added to the cost.)

Too much money, time and effort has been expended for the sake of a requirement that does very little — for good or ill. Virginia's ID law proves once again that a law can be constitutional and yet remain neither needed nor wise.
© Copyright 2016, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
