
Schapiro: Va.'s elections were rigged long before anyone heard of Trump
Newspaper October 25, 2016 | Richmond Times-Dispatch: Web Edition Articles (VA)
Author: JEFF E. SCHAPIRO Richmond Times-Dispatch Section: News 1084 Words

Notwithstanding Donald Trump's suspicions about presidential balloting, rigged elections in Virginia are nothing new. Republicans and Democrats have been rigging elections for years — and without help from the Russians.

It also depends how you define "rigged."

Since Republicans completed their takeover of the General Assembly in 2000 — and despite a brief Democratic take-back of the Virginia Senate that ended in 2014 — hyper-partisan gerrymandering has ensured for the GOP safe seats in the House of Delegates and Senate.

Republican-written restrictions on voting, most notably a photo ID requirement, can keep from the polls the wrong people — seniors, students and minorities, most of whom are actual or default Democrats. That's why Democrats are fighting the requirement in federal court.

Imitation must be the highest form of flattery, because Republicans are only doing what Democrats did for about a century.

It was on the Democrats' watch that redistricting became a game of pretend, weighted to rural Virginia at the expense of cities and suburbs. This continued into the 1970s, when the state began lurching toward single-member districts that would hasten the growth of the GOP as a legislative party.

In 1981, the Senate moved fully to single-member districts. The House balked, resisting pressure from the courts, voter groups and federal civil rights lawyers to carve additional majority-black districts, largely because it would create surrounding districts friendly to Republicans.

The House was in session for more than a year. Plan after plan failed with federal judges and the U.S. Justice Department. One map was so badly drawn, it included 101 House seats — one more than allowed by the state constitution.

The Democrat-dominated House so badly screwed up, delegates had to stand for election three times in three years. Those elections saw Republican gains, one of which — in the Charlottesville area — produced a future Republican superstar, George Allen. Two decades later, he flamed out because of one intemperate word.

And it was segregationist Democrats who introduced the poll tax, ruled illegal in the 1960s. It stripped most African-Americans and poor whites of the vote, dramatically shrinking the electorate and making politics a members-only pursuit for the white middle- and upper-class.

Civil rights law, a vigorous federal government and the judges who shaped both with their rulings helped democratize Virginia politics — but in fits and starts.

There's still a chance the U.S. Supreme Court will throw out, as racially biased, the House redistricting map that gives Republicans a 2-to-1 advantage. A separate challenge in state court to House and Senate lines goes to trial in the run-up to the 2017 statewide and House elections.

Rigged politics — more precisely, the perception of rigged politics — became a big deal in Virginia in this campaign cycle long before Trump advanced it for 2016's finale.

In April, Gov. Terry McAuliffe attempted by executive order to restore voting rights to 206,000 felons. Republicans said it was a ruse to flood the polls with votes for McAuliffe's pal, Hillary Clinton, never mind that polls suggest she won't need them to carry Virginia.

To thwart McAuliffe, Republicans turned to the Virginia Supreme Court, which they control because the legislature's majority party decides judgeships. The court ruled McAuliffe had no authority to issue a blanket decree; that he could only reinstate voting rights on a case-by-case basis.

The partisan nexus between the legislature and the court — and the General Assembly's firing this past winter of a McAuliffe-appointed interim justice for no reason other than she was his pick — may feed public worries about judicial independence.

Put another way: that the system may be rigged.

Then, in September, the Rockingham County prosecutor and the FBI opened an investigation into the illegal registration in Harrisonburg of about 20 voters using the names of dead people. The names were allegedly submitted by a student at James Madison University working for a voter-registration group.

Republicans pounced, saying it was proof Virginia's electoral process has been compromised.

They didn't use the word rigged. Perhaps they didn't have to.

Next, Republicans staged a meeting of the House and Senate elections committees to spotlight gaps in the registration system, later dramatized by the full-on crash of the online voter sign-up site. That compelled a federal judge to order a 1½-day extension for Virginians who want to vote Nov. 8.

Republicans didn't want to talk about a failure for which they and McAuliffe are responsible: They have neglected to fully finance the State Department of Elections. It faces a $7 million shortfall next year.

For Republicans, it was easier — and more provocative — to demand the head of Edgardo Cortés, chief elections officer and a McAuliffe appointee.

Quentin Kidd, a political scientist at Christopher Newport University, rejects suggestions that the integrity of the ballot is in doubt. Rather, he argues, the registration system — using Harrisonburg as an example — is sufficiently reliable that it can prevent skullduggery before it metastasizes into illegal voting.

Besides, Virginia has come a long way from its long history of electoral corruption.

In Virginia's infancy, voting was by voice, requiring a public declaration of one's preference — often in the presence of vengeful power brokers. Next, were implemented paper ballots, extras of which could be stuffed in the ballot box when an elections officer looked the other way. The secret ballot wasn't adopted until 1894.

At that time, Virginia was shaking off its post-Civil War romance with Republicans, then advocates of racial reconciliation and progressive public services.

In returning to power, conservative Democrats — preoccupied with eliminating the black vote — decided a rewrite of the state constitution was a more efficient way to, if you will, rig the system for whites, than rely on scheming at the polls. What emerged was the 1902 constitution. Its most insidious feature was the poll tax.

A 2007 study by the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University School of law said allegations of widespread voter fraud often prove "greatly exaggerated," becoming an excuse to enact unnecessary restrictions, such as photo ID.

It's an argument Republicans aren't buying. Besides, they prosper at the polls in Virginia when fewer people participate.

Gerrymandering awards disproportionate power to a narrow band of voters by disenfranchising others. The odd schedule of off-year elections cuts turnout, magnifying the strength of the most reliable voters, usually conservative Republicans.

But Republicans are playing the hand they were dealt.

On redistricting, they perfected with computer technology a process Democrats implemented in the scissors-and-glue era. As for the election schedule, that was set more than 160 years ago with the sole purpose of minimizing the influence of federal politics on state politics.

Again, it depends how you define rigged.
© Copyright 2016, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
