
Editorial: Vote fraud vs. hate crimes - what's a lot?
Newspaper January 2, 2017 | Richmond Times-Dispatch: Web Edition Articles (VA)
Author: Staff Writer Section: Opinion 440 Words

Sometimes you just have to laugh.

The other day The New York Times ran a front-page story insisting that "fraud by voters casting ballots illegally is a minuscule problem." The article relied on data from state voting officials, which showed "no credible allegations" of voter fraud in many states and only a few dozen in others.

"Tennessee counted 40 credible allegations out of some 4.3 million primary and general election votes," the newspaper noted. "In Georgia, where more than 4.1 million ballots were cast, officials said they had opened 25 inquiries. . . . In North Carolina . . . officials uncovered 25 apparently invalid votes by felons."

Bottom line: Fraudulent votes amount to only "a tiny sliver of the millions of votes cast in any election cycle. . . . (V)oter fraud . . . is exceedingly rare."

Whew! That's a relief.

But this is not exactly how The Times covers, say, hate crimes. "Crimes Against Muslim Americans and Mosques Rise Sharply," the paper reported with alarm last year. The story, based uncritically on data from a university research group, found — wait for it — "dozens" of such incidents "within just a month" of the San Bernardino terrorist attack.

Last month The Times ran a similar story on how hate crimes are surging, "fueled by attacks on Muslims." The story reported a total of 257 hate crimes against Muslims last year — "the highest total since 2001."

Oddly, the stories offered no context — such as "out of 319 million residents of the United States, officials reported only a few dozen credible allegations. . . ." The articles did not point out that, in a nation with more than 3 million Muslim residents, 257 incidents in the course of an entire year is, statistically speaking, minuscule. Or "a tiny sliver." Or "exceedingly rare."

The aim here is not to pooh-pooh the gravity of hate crimes, the perpetration of which is idiotic and vile. Nor is it merely to mock The New York Times, as richly deserved as such mockery might be. The broader point concerns the toxic effect of partisan thinking.

Republicans and conservatives are the ones who have been griping about voter fraud, and the reflexive response from the liberal side of the aisle is to dismiss such concerns — even when their frequency is roughly comparable to the frequency of incidents liberals take more seriously, such as hate crimes. Likewise, conservatives seem less exercised by actual incidents of hate crimes than by suspected cases of voter fraud — possibly because of assumptions they might make about who is committing the fraud and who benefits from it.

It's natural to react differently depending on whose ox is being gored. But the ownership question doesn't matter one bit to the ox.
© Copyright 2017, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
