
Letters to the Editor, Dec. 9, 2016
Newspaper December 8, 2016 | Richmond Times-Dispatch: Web Edition Articles (VA)
Author: Staff Writer Section: News 829 Words

Hybrid route

is best choice

Editor, Times-Dispatch:

The latest recommendation of the hearing examiner to adopt the Carver Road route for the proposed Amazon extension in Haymarket came as a total surprise. No one — not even Dominion — recommended that option.

The Carver route would not only be unsightly, but its course would run very close to two elementary schools. The examiner's reasoning was a non-sequitur. After citing almost 50 pages of evidence in favor of the hybrid route, he then recommended the Carver route. Why? He said that (1) there are many houses along I-66 (but there are almost as many along the Carver route, with a few homeowners possibly displaced) and (2) what if Interstate 66 needs further widening (even Dominion didn't think that was a problem, since they recommended the I-66 route)?

In any event, both concerns go away if the hybrid route is selected, so the only real consideration is up-front cost. That cost, which itself is debatable, should be recovered very quickly, making the hybrid route the cost-effective choice in the long run. This latest recommendation comes as a sharp stick in the eye to homeowners, business people and elected officials who have worked so hard to persuade the SCC to make the only sane choice — the hybrid route. It's the only option that makes sense for everyone.

Dana Roper.

Gainesville.

We don't have a

flag-burning problem

Editor, Times-Dispatch:Regarding Marsha Mercer's Op/Ed column, "Don't burn the flag or the First Amendment": Banning flag burning might open a can of worms. How would a ban be enforced? What constitutes an American flag in this context?

If I burn a look-alike flag with only 48 stars, would that be a crime? How many stars or stripes are needed to count as a flag? And how would you prove what I burned? The evidence would have gone up in smoke. Would burning evidence be prosecuted as obstruction of justice?

We don't now have a flag-burning problem. But we might well end up with an epidemic of burning look-alike flags if flag burning is banned.

Stephen Powelson.

Richmond.

Renewable energy

could spur growth

Editor, Times-Dispatch:So Virginia's growth is lagging the national rate of economic expansion. Recognizing that nationally one of the fasting-growing economic sectors is in renewable energy, perhaps Dominion's continuing efforts to block renewable energy is a major factor in Virginia's lackluster growth.

From blocking solar competition to stalling offshore wind development, Dominion is denying Virginians a clean-energy future and the jobs that come with it. Meanwhile, our politicians accept Dominion's campaign contributions, allow Dominion to suppress competition, then wring their hands over our slow economic growth.

Glen Besa.

Chesterfield.

Voter fraud more

common than you think

Editor, Times-Dispatch:Accusations and denials of vote fraud abound. What is the truth? Before the election, James O'Keefe's "Project Veritas" undercover videos exposed a well-funded, industrial-scale, dirty tricks and vote manipulation operation run by the left. Plainly described were several methods that shadow operatives used to harvest illegitimate votes. They also bragged about how they danced around legality issues like prima ballerinas. Two top operatives had to resign as a result of the exposure, yet the story was trivialized by the traditional media so no follow-up investigations were made. Recounts are unlikely to find the bad votes resulting from this operation, although the numbers were likely significant.

Perhaps two other personal examples will help. (1) My late father told stories about how he briefly worked for a Florida congressman's election campaign. It was around 1932. Jobs were nonexistent and the local Democratic machine ruled. He had access to a seemingly unlimited supply of cash to pay citizens to vote for the machine-preferred candidates. Perhaps this was simply an early form of community organizing. However, the experience forever soured Dad on politics because he knew it was unethical.

(2) Now fast forward to 2016. I learned of a voting misstep in a small Virginia town election (for mayor and town council seats) that unintentionally demonstrated how easily absentee ballots can be corrupted. One candidate allegedly hand-delivered about 80 identically marked absentee ballots. The town refused them because absentee ballots must be mailed individually. These same dubious ballots arrived later, were counted and contributed a significant percentage of the total vote. They only narrowly proved to be unnecessary. Using my dad's logic, these absentee ballots were likely as fraudulent as the votes he bought with cash. Therefore, pre-election vote fraud examples obviously exist although proving their post-election impact will be problematic.

James Stansbury.

Waverly.

Burning the flag

isn't free speech

Editor, Times-Dispatch:Recent Op/Ed columns about flag burning recall sadly how the Supreme Court unjustly amended the Constitution.

The Constitution protects free speech and freedom of the press. The dictionary cites spoken words in its definition of speech.

The court essentially eliminated the concept of the freedom of speech and freedom of the press being spoken or written words when it changed those freedoms to freedom of expression.

Burning a flag is neither freedom of speech nor freedom of the press. To say that it is doesn't make it so.

Walter Dunn Tucker.

Henrico.
© Copyright 2016, Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, VA
