
Vengeance in defeat
Newspaper October 19, 2016 | Rutland Herald (VT)
Section: Editorial 627 Words
Article Page: 4

To put Donald Trump into this category of great villains inflates his stature unjustly. He is too pathetic and hapless to rank highly among the catalogue of famous self-destructive lunatics. But the dynamic of his campaign shares the narcissism of the historic and literary strongman and the spiteful destructiveness of one intent on wreaking vengeance in defeat.

That is one way to interpret his baseless accusations that the election has been rigged against him. It is a fabrication made up to cover for his impending defeat, but not just to salve his wounded pride. In impugning the integrity of the nation’s democratic system, Trump seeks to inflict damage on democracy itself, undermining our faith in our elections, and bringing the system down in the ruins of his defeat.

There is explicit racism in his recent attacks. He urges his followers to go down to “certain neighborhoods,” by which he means the inner cities, to guard against voter fraud. Voter fraud, having proven to be virtually nonexistent, is code for black people voting. It has been the Republican strategy in recent years to prevent black people from voting, so Trump’s strategy is actually a crude vigilante’s expression of the GOP’s long-standing aim of voter suppression. But if his more thuggish supporters — like those sending death threats to newspapers — show up to intimidate voters, violence could be the result. (The violence occurring when someone bombed a Republican headquarters in North Carolina this week is an indefensible echo of the violent tone established by Trump.)

Most Americans understand what fair play means. In baseball, we respect the call of the umpire, even when we don’t agree. We play hard, and when we lose, we shake hands with the winners and say, “Good game.”

With defeat staring him in the face, Trump is threatening to blow up the stadium, metaphorically at least. It might be useful to remember how others in our history faced up to defeat. Al Gore won the popular vote in 2000 but lost the election when the Supreme Court interfered with the vote count in Florida. If anyone had grounds to complain about the umpiring it was Gore. But he saw that the way the system was set up, he had lost, and he was gracious in defeat.

It is through magnanimous behavior of that sort that democracy survives.

Winning politicians don’t throw their vanquished foes into jail, as they might in some countries and as Trump threatens to do. Losing politicians don’t whine (except, memorably, when Richard Nixon lost the race for governor of California in 1962. He got his revenge six years later, and then the system got its revenge six years after that).

It is one of the paradoxes of the election that Trump’s followers see him as strong when his behavior is patently that of a weakling, forced by his inadequacies to pump himself up, to bully and bluster. Whining about the election is the behavior of a loser.

His decline in recent weeks following allegations of sexual abuse should not have come as a surprise.

What is surprising is that it took this long. He skated through the primaries, and the media, rather than acting as a grand conspiracy to thwart him, failed to shine a light on his history. When he was high in the polls, he touted the polls and he soaked up the media attention. When he is down in the polls, it is all a conspiracy.

Through it all Hillary Clinton has carried on like the Little Engine That Could, with a well-managed, serious campaign, working overtime not to be distracted by the psychodrama of Trump’s self-destruction. There will be a debate tonight, and viewers will probably be tuning in to view Clinton’s effort to maintain her dignity while her opponent covers himself in mud.
Copyright, 2016, Rutland Herald
