
Twit-wit
Newspaper December 3, 2016 | Rutland Herald (VT)
Section: Business Vermont 924 Words
Article Page: 8

President-elect Donald Trump’s frequent Twitter tantrums are a curious thing. They are both signal and noise in equal measure — diversions from what he doesn’t want us to notice as well as telling glimpses of how he sees the world.

On the surface, Trump’s late-night tweet storms demonstrate behavior and temperament unbecoming of a person in his position. They reveal a petty, insecure and vindictive man who cannot abide even a whiff of criticism — a bully who lashes out at those who would threaten his supremacy, or “greatness.” But apparently we’ve made peace with all that. His impolitic, impolite outbursts and proclivity for “telling it like it is” — even when “it” is demonstrably false, as were his recent claims of election fraud — propelled him to victory.

Digging deeper, Trump’s use of Twitter can be understood as a bit of Machiavellian sleight of hand, diverting attention from bigger stories by chumming the water with yet another Trump meltdown. For example, many in the media read his tweets after the cast of “Hamilton” addressed Vice President-elect Mike Pence on the importance of representing all Americans as such a diversion. After all, the tweets came only hours after the president-elect settled his Trump University lawsuit for $25 million. Cynics even speculated that Pence, who has shown himself to be no friend of the LGBTQ community, was sent to “Hamilton” for the purpose of creating a story.

Whether or not they were manufactured to do so, these stories have succeeded in distracting journalists as they grapple with how to properly cover Trump. Since the election, media Twitter has been engaged in a prolonged and often contentious debate about what is and isn’t newsworthy. Many will argue that his attacks on “Hamilton” and false claims of voter fraud are taking attention away from stories about his conflicts of interest, his use of the presidency for personal financial gain, or his controversial cabinet and staff appointments.

That’s a reasonable concern, but it operates under the assumption that journalists and citizens can’t focus on all those things. As journalist Emma Roller tweeted Tuesday morning, “I’m so very tired of the scolds who say ‘Don’t pay attention to THAT, pay attention to THIS!’ Assumes readers can’t walk & chew gum.”

To some, the “Hamilton” incident may seem like more liberal elite bellyaching, but there’s more to it. When Mike Pence — a politician who has advocated gay-conversion therapy and as governor of Indiana pushed for legislation that made it easier for businesses and institutions to deny services to homosexual couples — enters the theater, an historically gay space, it’s not unreasonable or out of line for the cast to use the opportunity to respectfully petition him on their behalf, to remind him that, as vice president, he will be representing their community as well.

To his credit, Pence took the experience in stride, acknowledging that it’s part of the job.

Trump was expectedly less magnanimous. He dismissed the cast’s right to speak and demanded an apology. Donald Trump — a man who has mocked and bullied his critics, including women, minorities and the disabled, without ever once showing an ounce of remorse or regret for doing so — now wanted an apology. That’s some next-level hypocrisy.

More troubling, though, is Trump’s apparent disregard for the First Amendment as evidenced by his tweets. During the campaign, Trump suggested libel laws should be opened up to punish journalists. Following the election, he called anti-Trump protests “unfair.” As recently as Tuesday he tweeted, “Nobody should be allowed to burn the American flag — if they do, there must be consequences — perhaps loss of citizenship or year in jail!”

That last tweet in particular is alarming for both its severity and ignorance. Regardless of Donald Trump’s (or your) personal views on flag burning, the Supreme Court has ruled as recently as 1990 that it is protected by the First Amendment.

In January, Donald Trump will be our next president. His blithe attitude toward the First Amendment should be a matter of concern. It’s one thing for an ill-tempered candidate to wax about punishing journalists for writing unfavorably about him. It’s quite another for a president-to-be to suggest jailing or exiling citizens for exercising that right.

Donald Trump’s lack of respect for a right he freely exercises every day on Twitter is the epitome of hypocrisy. He bullies people yet demands apologies from others. He regularly spreads patently false information, yet suggests charging journalists with libel.

It’s easy to read Trump’s tweets as empty bluster — as nothing more than loud words on a silly app — but it’s an error to dismiss them as mere theater. There is more at work here. We can continue to brush off Trump’s behavior as toothless rhetoric, but we do so at our peril. Words become beliefs, beliefs become actions and actions have consequences.

If we stop being shocked and troubled by Trump’s outbursts, we risk normalizing his behavior and numbing ourselves to the actions he takes beyond tweeting once in office. Four years is a long time to sustain such vigilance. To do so, we must temper our outrage and avoid histrionics in the face of Trump’s near daily barrage of chaos. It will be tiring work, but we must stay focused, because a president with megalomaniacal tendencies and contempt for the First Amendment is a truly dangerous thing.

Click back

What do you think? Tell me about it on Twitter @JimSabataso using the hashtag #clickd.

Further clicking

The popular webcomic XKCD has a thoughtful take on free speech that it would do us all good to remember. Check it out here (xkcd.com/1357).
Copyright, 2016, Rutland Herald
