
How the system is rigged
Newspaper October 21, 2016 | Rutland Herald (VT)
Section: Commentary 916 Words
Article Page: 5

I’ve said it before, and I’ll say it again, the old adage “words will never hurt me” is dangerously wrong — don’t believe it. Mr. Trump’s latest rhetorical mantra is “the system is rigged” and “if I lose it will be because the election is rigged.” These words have already hurt us as a nation, and they may very well hurt us much more in the coming weeks.

As is often the case with Mr. Trump’s use of language, it’s hard to know what he means by the word “rigged.” If he means (as Rudy Giuliani has suggested) that there is widespread voter fraud with dead people and illegal aliens voting, this old accusation has been studied hard and carefully over the last dozen years, and it doesn’t hold up.

If he means “the system is rigged” in the sense that voting districts are gerrymandered viciously, that’s a different matter. Gerrymandering has indeed rigged our system. It’s a very serious problem. However, for the last several years or so the use of partisan gerrymandering has been skillfully employed to keep Republicans in power at the expense of Democrats, as has recently been persuasively exposed in David Daley’s 2016 book about the successful Republican REDMAP redistricting initiative, which was given the name the Redistricting Majority Project, a Program of the Republican State Leadership Committee.

If Mr. Trump means that there is too much big and “dark” money being used to sway elections, that’s also a different matter. The Citizens United Supreme Court decision has been, with considerable validity, severely criticized especially by Democrats because it has opened the door far too wide for too much corporate money (largely Republican) to pour into our elections.

Mr. Trump may have a point about things being “rigged,” except that lately it seems pretty clear the rigging has been being done by and on behalf of Republicans. I hasten to add, this is definitely not to suggest that Democrats have a monopoly on virtue — far from it — but merely to point out that for the last couple of decades the Democrats, despite their best (or worse) intentions, have allowed themselves to be outfoxed, which is nothing to be proud of. Politics has never been for the fainthearted and that’s fair enough.

Then there are the media. Mr. Trump seems to think that “the media” are dead set against him, and that somehow Hillary Clinton has an unfair, rigged advantage with the media. This accusation is a little hard to take inasmuch as few people have ever been beat up in the press as much as Hillary and Bill Clinton.

Yes, the media appears to be “rigged” in the sense that an increasingly large number of journalists are losing patience with Mr. Trump’s vacillations, accusations, and menacing machinations. But here’s a news flash for Mr. Trump: The system is not rigged simply because a growing number of people don’t like you.

Those who routinely use rhetoric that insults and disrespects people and those who have no concern about burning bridges will down the road find themselves in an isolated, lonely position. We see this every day in real life — there’s no mystery there, there’s no “rigging” involved.

To repeatedly yell “it’s rigged!” in the last weeks of an election is a bit like yelling “Fire!” in a crowded theater. It gets people upset, it causes people to panic, it brings out the worst in our animal instincts of self preservation, and it can very easily cause serious bodily harm. That’s why it’s in fact illegal to shout “Fire!” in a theater. It can easily incite people to harm each other.

There are those, myself among them, who are fearful of what may happen in our country the day after or a month after the election — dissension and even violence. It now seems quite likely that Mr. Trump will lose, perhaps by a narrow margin in the popular vote, but he will lose. Normally this would be simply politics as usual. At the end of every presidential election we have someone who becomes president and some one who loses and does not become president. Both parties respect the system, and neither party employs the option of encouraging outrage and rebellion “with pitchforks,” and neither party takes the position that the election was so tainted that our country has ended up in the hands of a criminal who “should be in jail.” In this election, it seems likely that the latter option may very well be employed.

This will be horrible for our country.

To make the situation even more threatening to our democracy, it now appears likely that Mr. Trump, upon losing, could very well start up his own television network. And remember, thanks to the Citizens United decision, there is now no limit to how much influence corporate interests and corporate money can have in American politics. A television network founded so that one man can systematically exploit this loophole to create a high-tech soap box for himself is not necessarily the way to “make American great again.”

With this election we are indeed at a crossroads. There is a great deal at stake. Is the election rigged? Yes. But not at all in the way Mr. Trump is suggesting. There is a major difference between working the system and rigging the system. Yelling “Fire! It’s rigged!” in a crowded theater during (and after) a presidential election is a highly effective way of rigging the system.

John Nassivera is a retired professor and life fellow of Columbia University’s Society of Fellows in the Humanities. He lives in southern Vermont and part-time in Mexico.
Copyright, 2016, Rutland Herald
