
Trump’s weakness
Newspaper November 29, 2016 | Rutland Herald (VT)
Section: Editorial 623 Words
Article Page: 4

For him to lie blatantly and shamelessly debases the presidency and hurts the credibility of the United States. That is what he did in his statement that the reason he lost the popular vote was because of vast voter fraud and millions of illegal votes. It was a verbal assault on American democracy that might be expected from America’s worst enemies, not from the president-elect.

But to describe Trump’s rhetoric in terms of truth or falsehood misses the point. Truth is irrelevant to him. Language for Trump is a weapon used to wreck the political system in order that he may seize power from the institutions he has ruined.

Trump’s attacks on the electoral system follow similar attacks during the campaign when he declared that if he were to lose, the only possible explanation would be voter fraud. Voter fraud, in the view of the white supremacists with whom Trump has aligned himself, could be defined as black people voting. Thus, attacking the legitimacy of the electoral system is akin to his attacks on the legitimacy of Barack Obama’s citizenship — in both cases exploiting racist suspicions by circulating falsehoods.

It turns out Trump did lose the vote, and so he is alleging voter fraud on a massive scale. To make such a baseless allegation in his role as president-elect is an egregious abuse of power. It does more than salve the wounded ego of the candidate who won fewer votes. It promotes the misbegotten idea among credulous Trump supporters that voter fraud actually occurred, probably among those people about whom Trump has been spreading suspicion.

One would think, as chief executive-elect, Trump would want to root out the alleged voter fraud, meaning he would be curious to see the results of the election recount in Wisconsin, which will take place soon. Instead, Trump called the recount a “scam.” What that means is anyone’s guess. Probably it means he is worried a recount will narrow his margin of victory.

Many voters are curious to learn if Russian hacking influenced the vote count in Wisconsin or elsewhere, though it appears the Obama administration believes the impact of Russian hacking was negligible. Even so, the administration ought to take aggressive retaliatory action against Russian interference, including the creation of fake news stories that appeared online during the campaign which were said to originate in Russia.

One of the purposes of Trump’s ongoing campaign of lies, such as his allegations of voter fraud, is to distract the media and the people from what he is actually up to. It is the duty of the media to report his verbiage because he is the president-elect. But as everyone digests each new batch of sludge, he is readying a political program that could be devastating to the environment and to human rights, enriching himself and his cronies at the expense of everyone else, including the working people who saw him as their champion.

Meanwhile, Trump continues to tweet. He is a bristling font of hostility against anyone who threatens him, and that is not a style of leadership well suited to the American presidency.

He will see eventually that the people have a will of their own. If he respected the people, he would allow that they might favor a recount as a way to answer their questions. He would allow that they have questions. But he is not respectful. If things aren’t going his way, he attacks, and that is the larger danger of his presidency.

In fact, Trump’s attacks are a good indicator of where he thinks he is weak. He has attacked the election process because he lost the popular vote, which weakens him. But by attacking the credibility of American democracy, he attacks the American people, and they will take it only for so long.
Copyright, 2016, Rutland Herald
