How Trump rigged the election - to ensure he would lose | Opinion
Newspaper October 18, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The: Web Edition Articles (Newark, NJ)
Section: Opinion 888 Words
By Mark R. Horowitz

Pathological liars rarely stumble into telling the truth — it does nothing for them. In the case of Donald Trump inciting his faithful about a rigged election system, he has accidentally blurted out the truth.

Trump rigged the election so that he will lose.

And perhaps for the first time in his life, he will succeed without the help of his father or banks too fearful to lose bad investments.

"The Rigging" — if we can create a chapter heading for future history books —involved two parts, both initiated by Trump.

Part I was purposeful but with unintended consequences. Trump spent more than a year demonstrating to Americans and the world of his viciousness, uncanny ignorance and lazy (and limited) intellectual capacity, and his belief that in having no beliefs or plans or clue about how to solve the issues Americans cared about he could nonetheless prevail by spewing hatred and false promises and lies that an angry segment of the populace were receptive to believe.

These followers hated Hillary and the so-called Establishment that much.

And by the way, those Trumpites who have jobs actually work for an establishment, buy groceries and bank at establishments and watch their favorite TV programs and movies created by establishments. They can do so because these entities they depend on for their existence are established. Get it?

Trump's outrageous and often stupid remarks and insults forced a large segment of the voting public to see him for what he was, pushing them into the arms of Hillary Clinton or a third party or a non-vote.

Amazingly and uncharacteristically, this accomplishment was done all by Trump himself. He had no assistance. By continuing to play to his base, he rigged the electorate to create a finite following but at the same time inhibiting any increase in their numbers due to his personality and ineptness.

His erratic behavior continued through the summer, hurting his numbers and spawning the reality that his efforts to rig his own defeat were bearing fruit. That is when he went public with the notion that the election was rigged — not from his own efforts to lose, but from the very group that created him through more than two billion dollars of free advertising: The Media.

Moreover, the media was in cahoots with Hillary Clinton because, well just because. Trump was setting up his followers for his defeat without mentioning that it was a self-fulfilling prophecy by no greater a seer than Trump himself.

Part II of "The Rigging" commenced during the first debate, where more voters learned that you really do need to prepare for anything you do in life and also have the mental capacity to process such preparation. Trump lacked both and displayed it for the masses.

His poll numbers began to slide further — the very polls he loved to quote and embellish during his race for the Republican nomination until his Part I rigging efforts made the numbers change course.

His pathetic debate showing was followed by his "boy talk" caught on tape — a phrase coined by his hapless wife although a 59-year old man is hardly a boy, except perhaps in Trump's case. However, when I was a boy I don't recall hearing such language or boasting of sexual conquests by preying on women.

Trump's poll numbers now dropped precipitously thanks to those newly-enlightened citizens who, although late in determining what this guy was about, decided that he had crossed the line despite the fact that by now it was Line 177. (I made up that number. Trump would no doubt appreciate my effort.)

"The Rigging" has now become the rallying cry for Trump. No mention of policies (what policies?). No mention of solutions (seriously?). The election is going to be lost because the system is rigged.

His followers now seem to be swallowing this whole, just as they swallowed everything else Trump threw at them from his goody bag since the primaries. Americans in the know — fortunately there are still enough of them to hopefully avoid this country going all 1930s Germany or Italy — are aware that voter fraud is all but non-existent in this country.

Ask Republican governors and secretaries of state in control of elections in their states, who are incensed that Trump would insult them with this fairy tale. Read a respected study from Loyola Marymount Law School, which found that of the more than one billion votes cast since the 2000 presidential election (that's 1,000,000,000 votes), there were exactly 31 credible claims of voter fraud.

You are 10 times more likely to get hit by an asteroid than see voter fraud on the magnitude of 31 votes. You have a better chance of actually living in a simulated world and not a real one than witnessing voter fraud.

Unless you are Donald Trump, of course. He simulates his own world, and in this case it is one where he rigged the system to lose and then complained about how the system was rigged.

Most losers know how to lose, especially when they try to win from the onset. Trump should be gratified to learn that his strong effort at losing will pay off. He rigged it that way. He is a true, self-made loser.

Mark R. Horowitz, Ph.D., is a historian, author and a fellow of the Royal Historical Society.

Bookmark NJ.com/Opinion. Follow on Twitter @NJ_Opinion and find NJ.com Opinion on Facebook.
Copyright 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
