REPUBLICANS AGAIN TRY TO SUPPRESS VOTES
Newspaper November 3, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ)
Section: New Jersey 521 Words
Page: 22
The 1981 gubernatorial campaign was a quintessential Jersey event: Republicans sent poll watchers into Newark and Camden and Trenton and Vineland to protect against "fraud" - most of them off-duty cops wearing guns and armbands that read "National Ballot Security Force," dissuading minorities who weren't likely to vote for Tom Kean from exercising their civil rights.

It was illegal, if not comically abhorrent, but they got away with it. Kean won by 1,797 votes over Jim Florio out of 2.3 million cast. Even the GOP said its vigilantes swung that election.

So the Democrats sued, and a federal court forced the Republican National Committee to sign a consent decree that prevents the RNC from "ballot security activities" - i.e., intimidation and harassment - and establishes judicial oversight over RNC poll-watching. That decree remains in effect until 2017.

So guess who is trying to get around it, unless another federal judge in Newark intervenes Friday morning?

If you wonder whether Donald Trump can compete fairly or lose gracefully, think again. For months, he has spoken of rigged elections, and asked supporters to "get everybody to go out and watch. ... and when I say ‘watch,' you know what I'm talking about, right?" His website solicit volunteers to be "election observers" to monitor "certain areas," ostensibly to fight voter fraud that doesn't exist.

You might dismiss that as overwrought political rhetoric from a whiny 70-year-old, but if there is any RNC complicity, it merits a harsh judicial slap-down.

There is anecdotal evidence that the RNC supports Trump's thuggery: On Aug. 3 in Colorado, Mike Pence said the RNC was directly coordinating with the Trump campaign on "ballot integrity initiatives." After the final debate, campaign manager Kellyanne Conway told the Washington Post that the campaign is "actively working with the national committee, the official party, and campaign lawyers to monitor precincts around the country."

This would seem to run afoul of the consent decree, which "explicitly forbids the RNC" from engaging in ballot security measures, "directly, indirectly, or through its agents or employees."

So the DNC dutifully filed another suit, and Judge John Michael Vazquez told the RNC to bring any documentation of agreements it has with the Trump campaign to his courtroom Friday. We'd say there is ample proof on videotape from Pence and Conway, and it is enough to hold the RNC in violation the consent decree, to apply sanctions, and to extend the decree for another eight years.

As Florio says now, "The decree is clear. It's important this is settled before Election Day."

There is nothing wrong with investigating voter fraud, even though people are less likely to engage in it than get hit by lightning: One study found 31 cases of fraud from 2000 to 2014 out of more than one billion votes cast.

Republicans simply want to suppress the vote, and they admit as much.

But democracy suffers when hurdles are placed before eligible voters under the guise of ballot security, especially that muscle-up behavior made infamous here in New Jersey. When you have a candidate who has already decided that "certain areas" merit special attention, that is ample reason to reinforce and extend the consent decree.
Copyright (c) 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
