
MVC BILL WOULD IMPROVE VOTER TURNOUT IN N.J.
Newspaper October 12, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ)
Author: John F. McKeon Section: Opinion 637 Words
Page: 16
According to a recent report by the Pew Foundation's Center on the States, New Jersey's overall election performance is well below average for the U.S., ranking 37th among the states. The Pew ranking utilizes an index that measures a variety of voting behaviors, as well as assessing state administrative tools designed to support voting. As we near the Oct. 18 deadline for eligible voters to register for the Nov. 8 general election, this is disappointing news.

Low rates of registration and low turnout among registered voters are among the greatest threats to the vitality of our democratic electoral system. Voters in the U.S. serve as the most important check on the actions of the political branches of government at all levels. Without adequate levels of voter participation, our governments become less and less representative of the people they are elected to serve.

So, while some states have attempted to discourage voters on Election Day via strict identification laws, others have tried to promote participation. Assembly Bill 1944, now pending in the state Legislature, would automatically register all eligible citizens to vote when they interact with the New Jersey Motor Vehicles Commission. Applicants would be given the option not to register and nondrivers could still register through traditional methods.Currently, four states have automatic or motor vehicle license voter registration, and 28 others are considering similar laws.

The idea reflects a growing trend to put voter registration in sync with our frenetic 21st century lifestyle. Our current system is mismatched to an ultra-mobile society partly because it places the burden on eligible voters to update their information when they move. The result? The Brennan Center for Justice Report on Voter Registration Systems states that one-third of unregistered voters in the U.S. are those "who had moved and hadn't re-registered." This does not have to be the case.

In addition to making re-registration more convenient, automatic voter registration has also been found to save taxpayer dollars. Another Pew Research Center study found paper-based voter registration systems in the U.S. cost states $4.11 per registered voter because paper applications require manual data entry. Compare that with the 35 cents per active voter that Canada spends using modern technology to register voters.

In his veto statement, Gov. Chris Christie regrettably mischaracterized the creation of an MVC-linked automatic voter roll as a "cocktail for fraud." Surely, he cannot have been referring to the MVCs "Six Points" of identification system. Anyone who has renewed a license at an MVC office knows these identification requirements are rigorous. And when compared with the current mail-in voter registration system, which lacks comparable safeguards, it is clear the concern for fraud is without basis.

In short, automatic registration would prevent the already increasingly rare case of "in person" voter fraud, and make voter participation easier. Independents, Republicans, Democrats, senior citizens, people with disabilities, and the men and women of our military would all benefit from a more practical registration process.

One of Thomas Jefferson's most fundamental political beliefs was that the will of the people, expressed through broad and active participation in elections, provided the ultimate assurance for the wise direction of the republic.

Our state's ability to deal with the challenges we face is considerably dependent on the electorate's ability and willingness to participate. Voting will always be a matter of personal responsibility and civic duty, but that should not preclude government from promoting this critical activity by reducing the administrative requirements of another time.

In light of the national trend of decreasing voter turnout combined with the increasing influence of special interest groups, states must take reasonable, secure and cost-effective measures, such as A1944, to make voting more convenient and accessible to all citizens.

John F. McKeon (D-Essex) is a member of the New Jersey General Assembly. He is chairman of the Assembly Judiciary Committee. He also serves on the State Budget Committee.
Copyright (c) 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
