EDITORIAL WHEN ALL NEWS IS ‘FAKE,' WE ARE A DUPABLE NATION
Newspaper December 28, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ)
Section: News 585 Words
Page: 16
EDITORIAL WHEN ALL NEWS IS ‘FAKE,' WE ARE A DUPABLE NATION
Until recently, fake news meant stories deliberately fabricated for profit by Macedonian teenagers, unscrupulous entrepreneurs or breathless conspiracy theorists, all out for clicks and ad revenue.

It was the "Pizzagate" video that inspired a man to walk into a Washington pizzeria with a gun, after believing the outlandish story - peddled by Alex Jones' InfoWars website, a conspiracy hub boosted by the Drudge Report - that it was a front for a Democratic pedophile ring.

But now that definition is changing, the New York Times reported on Monday. Instead of denouncing these nutty sites and calling on advertisers to stop bankrolling them, conservatives are stretching their definition of "fake news" to include any news that doesn't fit their agenda.

For instance: The alt-right website Breitbart just called the assertion that Russia was behind the hacking of our election "left-wing fake news," even though this is based on the conclusions of U.S. intelligence agencies and several private cyber-security experts, not some blogger in a tin foil hat.

Rush Limbaugh now claims "the fake news is the everyday news," and that the mainstream media "just make it up." In other words, conservatives are no longer trying to win the argument on the merits. When confronted with news they don't like, they are dismissing it as a figment of the other party's imagination.

Donald Trump, an avid conspiracy theorist himself, is unlikely to reverse this trend, fueled by his own false tweets and attacks on fact-checkers. Neither is the team he's building for the White House - including a national security adviser who tweeted a false report linking Clinton to "Pizzagate."

Even as she was drawing a check from CNN, Trump surrogate Scottie Nell Hughes inadvertently confirmed this post-truth strategy last month, when she claimed that "There's no such thing, unfortunately, anymore as facts."

Nonsense. When something is checked repeatedly and found to be false, like Trump's utterly baseless assertion that there was widespread voter fraud in this election, it is not left-wing fake news. There is such a thing as fact and fiction.

An Orwellian world in which facts are anything you want them to be is just as hostile to conservatives, in the long run.

Do we really want a public that equates deliberate hoaxers with professional journalists who carefully source their stories? One in which nutcases like Alex Jones - who questions whether the Sandy Hook massacre ever happened - can hijack legitimate policy debates? A world in which there is no independent arbiter of truth to question those in power?

Remember, before there was President-elect Trump, there was another favorite "straight-talker," Chris Christie.

What if he and his cabal had succeeded in discrediting all evidence of wrongdoing that emerged from Bridgegate, by framing the entire scandal - as Limbaugh once tried to do - as just a media attempt "to destroy Chris Christie"?

What if he had called all the published reports that he diverted Hurricane Sandy relief funds to the politically connected "fake news"? Would his popularity now be at 18 percent? Would his credibility among conservatives have tumbled?

Maybe not. But few would argue we'd be better off as a state.

At the end of the day, this is about the ability of voters to know the truth about the phony claims of those in power. By blurring the lines between fact and fiction, we are only grooming ourselves for more abuse.

People like Jones are lining their pockets by pretending to be the new arbiters of truth against a corrupt establishment. But fake news writers are not the greatest threat here; it's those who seek to lump them in with the real thing.
Copyright (c) 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
