STEP OUT OF THE STONE AGE, NEW JERSEY: TECHNOLOGY CAN MAKE VOTING EASIER
Newspaper November 3, 2016 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ)
Section: New Jersey 647 Words
Page: 22
Robert Torricelli Guest Columnist

In a democratic society, to have any segment of the population feel disenfranchised goes to the very core of the Republic itself. And it is no small number of people in this nation who now feel that they are either disenfranchised or potentially so disenfranchised.

I spoke these words during a U.S. Senate hearing on election reform in 2001. Fifteen years later, they're more true than ever.

As voters go to the polls to exercise their sacred right to vote, they have an equally sacred right to make sure their vote is counted. Some relatively simple steps can be taken to safeguard their rights. And the best way to strengthen our democracy is to make it easier for more people to participate.

We can and should eliminate the fear of the integrity of the voting process. We have the technological ability to reach every eligible American voter.

While news accounts of hacking attempts by foreign governments of campaign committees and at least two state's voter rolls are alarming, there are solutions and safeguards that can be implemented. By every measure, vote counts are accurate, but some safeguards would reassure the electorate.

Just as the country designates the banking system and power grid as "critical infrastructure" protected by the federal government and Homeland Security, so too should the voting process be protected.

That doesn't mean the federal government should wrest control of the process from the states and local jurisdictions. It means the federal government should work with them to help strengthen their systems from attack, whether physically or electronically, just as it does with the owners and operators of the banking system and power grid.

Homeland Security can work in an advisory role to state and local officials, sharing its vast technological expertise; the federal government can help with funding to protect the integrity of the voting systems. There are 9,000 separate agencies with election jurisdiction in the United States - which helps in some regards to protect the system from intrusion. There is no one single system that can be targeted. And elections are not a one-size-fits all process, but Homeland Security has the most up-to-date technological expertise to help protect aging local systems from intrusion.

While we must and can guarantee the integrity the voting system, we must also make it easier for more people to vote. If more people vote, there's greater certainty in the results.

In New Jersey, state Sens. Ronald Rice (D-Essex) and Nia Gill (D-Essex, Passaic) have worked tirelessly to expand the franchise and to increase participation in our democracy.

Important and easy-to-implement new programs could vastly increase voter participation.

In this technological age, it's nearly Neanderthal that voter registration applications must be filled out on paper. Online registration should be instituted.

Early in-person voting should be instituted by designating locations in each county Monday through Saturday at least two weeks before Election Day.

Allowing 17-year-olds to pre-register if they will be 18 at the time of the next election is another easy way to increase participation.

Technology would allow automatic registration for any voter when they reach 18 years old. The Motor Vehicle Commission could electronically transfer the legal name, address and signature from driver's licenses and state identification cards to election officials.

And those who cast ballots by mail should be able to choose to do so for all future elections.

While technology makes opening the democratic process easier, a low-tech process should be added. Voting machines should generate a paper receipt for each voter. If our parking meters give receipts, why not voting machines?

And while voter fraud is exceedingly rare, we need to know when and if it takes place. Each county election official should be required to file a written report with the Secretary of State following each election noting any incidents of fraud.

Robert Torricelli, a Democrat, represented New Jersey in the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives.
Copyright (c) 2016 The Star-Ledger. All Rights Reserved.
