Cleanup needed: Voter rolls abet voter fraud
Newspaper January 29, 2017 | New Hampshire Union Leader/New Hampshire Sunday News: Web Edition Articles (Manchester, NH)
Section: Editorials 279 Words
Cleanup needed: Voter rolls abet voter fraud
EDITORIAL

January 28. 2017 8:33PM

------------

Rarely do the two opposing sides of a political argument go to such lengths to discredit themselves.

But such is the case in the ongoing battle over voter fraud.

President Donald Trump keeps repeating the baseless assertions that millions of illegal votes cost him the popular vote.

First, there is no evidence to support this belief.

Second, he won. The popular vote has no legal standing, and he should shut up and move on.

Third, it is obvious that Trump's belief system is based on whatever he needs to tell himself to assuage his remarkably fragile ego.

George Will today takes the President to task for his embrace of "alternative facts." Trump's false claims also undercut the very real problem of cleaning up the nation's chaotic voter rolls.

In today's column, Roger Simon relays the race-baiting myth that any attempt to increase the integrity of the voting booth is really an attempt at voter suppression.

Quoting extensively from racial huckster Jesse Jackson, Simon equates attempts to reduce voter fraud with Jim Crow and the three-fifths compromise. Such arguments have no more validity than Trump's belief that 5 million illegal voters were cast against him in November.

State voter rolls are comically outdated, with millions of deceased Americans still listed and millions more still eligible to vote in multiple jurisdictions. Investigations in California, North Carolina and South Carolina turned up thousands of dead voters who rose from their graves to vote.

The number of illegal votes cast each election is not zero. It's not 5 million. Anyone making either claim is delusional.

Why not make an effort to find out what the real number is?
Copyright, 2017, Union Leader Corp.
