
Another View -- Todd Selig: Election reform is possible in New Hampshire
Newspaper December 6, 2016 | New Hampshire Union Leader/New Hampshire Sunday News: Web Edition Articles (Manchester, NH)
Author: TODD SELIG Section: Another View 765 Words
THIRTY-SEVEN STATES and Washington, D.C., offer some form of early voting where the rules make it possible for voters to cast their ballots before Election Day without the requirement for an excuse to vote early. In New Hampshire, only those who qualify under a rigid definition to get an absentee ballot can vote early.

While some have argued over the years for early voting here, Secretary of State William Gardner is convinced early voting has the opposite effect — it cheapens the value of the day itself.

The data suggests Gardner is right. A 2014 study from the University of Wisconsin-Madison showed that same-day Election Day registration policies, such as those used in New Hampshire whereby residents may both register to vote at the polling place on the day of the election and cast their ballot, has a consistently positive effect on turnout, whereas the most popular reform, early voting, is actually associated with lower turnout.

Other election reforms should also be considered, and America Votes has advanced a plan for New Hampshire encompassed in three state initiatives.

The first, standardizing Election Day polling hours from 6 a.m. until 8 p.m. would add both convenience and predictability for voters. The challenge with this initiative is that as election officials in municipalities know too well, we rely on citizen volunteers to staff our polling places, and it has already become difficult to find sufficient persons to staff existing polling hours.

The second initiative is to create an innovation grant system administered by Gardner's office to support municipalities to ensure they have the supplies, voting equipment and technical support to implement streamlined polling place and registration processes. Such a program would be beneficial.

America Votes' third initiative is to implement a statewide online voter registration system. Of all the reforms being discussed at present, the most promising is this, which was deliberated by the New Hampshire Legislature in pilot form as part of HB 1534 in 2016 called E-POLL. There are many benefits of an electronic voter registration and check-in system: It is anticipated to dramatically reduce waiting lines, reduce the possibility of voter fraud, shorten the process for same-day registration, and eliminate weeks of post-election data entry. That is why the project has received support from the City and Town Clerks Association, the League of Women Voters, and the N.H. Municipal Association, and why the chairs of both the Republican and Democratic state parties sent letters supporting it. The fact that we have a significant period of time before the next state primary gives New Hampshire a perfect opportunity to roll out some form of electronic voter registration system.

College student voting is likely the final topic that will receive significant scrutiny in 2017. Typically Republican-leaning legislatures have expressed concern about the same-day registration of college students, primarily because it is perceived that most college students tend to favor more liberal perspectives and candidates, while Democratic-leaning legislatures have advocated for maintaining the existing definition of domicile.

In June 2012, the New Hampshire Legislature, overriding Gov. John Lynch's veto, passed SB 318, which required people registering to vote to sign an affidavit agreeing they were subject to the state's residency laws, "including laws requiring a driver to register a motor vehicle and apply for a New Hampshire driver's license within 60 days of becoming a resident."

The ACLU argued imposing a "residency" condition on the right to vote would disenfranchise college students living in New Hampshire, a Manchester executive intending to retire in Florida, a medical resident living here while completing her hospital training, or a member of the U.S. Navy who lives in Portsmouth but knows he will be transferred somewhere else in two years.

Being domiciled, according to the ACLU, did not mean anyone could vote in the state simply because they want to or are in the state on Election Day. Instead, it argued, a person is domiciled in New Hampshire for voting purposes if that person has a continuous physical presence here and treats this state as home.

The New Hampshire Supreme Court concurred with the ACLU and unanimously struck down the 2012 state law that required voters be state residents, not just domiciled here, in order to vote.

Trying to fine-tune the definition of domicile, particularly with the goal of excluding college students, has many unintended consequences that invariably impact non-college students, the elderly or the poor. The existing system works. Instead, focus state legislative energies on E-POLL. It's an innovation whose time has come.

Todd Selig is the town administrator for Durham.
Copyright, 2016, Union Leader Corp.
