With refusal to absolutely accept election result, Trump tells voters they don’t matter
Newspaper October 21, 2016 | Charlotte Observer, The: Web Edition Articles (NC)
Author: Rex Huppke, The Charlotte Observer Section: op_ed 472 Words
With refusal to absolutely accept election result, Trump tells voters they don’t matter
Donald Trump sent a message to his supporters during the final debate of the 2016 presidential campaign: Don’t bother voting.

I mean, sure, if you feel up for it, fine. But if you can’t make it, no biggie. Trump’s got this.

When he was asked by moderator Chris Wallace if he will “absolutely accept the result of this election,” Trump said: “What I’m saying is that I will tell you at the time. I'll keep you in suspense, OK?”

Sure! Who doesn’t love suspense and not knowing whether one of the foundational elements of our democracy – the peaceful transition of power – will be upheld?

And because Trump won’t commit to that peaceful transition, what difference does voting make? Trump’s going to win this thing, even if he loses.

It’s all rigged anyway, right? That “nasty woman,” as Trump called Hillary Clinton near the end of the debate, has rigged the whole thing. She and her “international banker” friends Trump brought up in a recent speech (wink, wink) and the media and the globalists and the bazillions of illegal immigrants who can somehow overcome a carefully monitored voting system overseen by Democrats and Republicans will undoubtedly sway the election in her favor.

And then Trump will keep us in suspense right up until the point where he calls foul on the whole system and claims he won. Or that he should’ve won. Or whatever.

Point is, he comes out on top. That’s the way it always has to be.

Any poll that shows him losing a debate to Clinton is rigged. Any poll that shows him winning a debate is spot-on and worth pushing out to his 12 million Twitter followers.

Any snot-nosed pundits who point out polls that show him winning the debate are non-scientific garbage are pundits who’ve been bought by the Clinton Crime Foundation. Total losers. Sad.

If Trump wins the election, it’s a triumph.

If he loses the election, it’s rigged. It’s massive voter fraud. It’s a conspiracy.

And then it’s time for suspense! What will he do?

I'll tell you what he'll do. He'll find a way to say he won.

And that means he doesn’t care about your vote. He apparently doesn’t even need your vote.

He has his ego, which on the debate stage Wednesday night before millions of viewers, apparently instructed him to defy historical precedent and refuse to commit to accepting the results of the coming election. That monstrous ego is all Trump needs or cares about, because with it he has never failed, at least not in his mind.

And he never will.

Your vote doesn’t matter to him any more than the basic tenets of our democracy.

If he wins, he wins. If he loses, he wins.

He spelled it all out on that debate stage, clear as a bell: You. Don’t. Matter.

Only he does.

Email: rhuppke@chicagotribune.com.
Copyright (c) 2016 The Charlotte Observer

