
False claims, inaccurate statements and exaggerations
Newspaper January 28, 2017 | Charleston Gazette-Mail (WV)
Author: Glenn Kessler The Washington Post Section: News 975 Words
Page: P3A
False claims, inaccurate statements and exaggerations
Regular readers know that candidate Donald Trump had difficulty with facts. Now that Trump is president, he continues to make misleading statements, based on incomplete information, inaccurate statistics or flights of fancy. Here's an accounting of some of his public statements in the first seven days as president, not counting his error-plagued inauguration speech (which had eight problematic claims).

nnn

"I remember hearing [when I was young] from one of my instructors, The United States has never lost a war.' And then, after that, it's like we haven't won anything. We don't win anymore. - Jan. 21, remarks at the CIA.

This is debatable. At the very least, one might count the 1991 Persian Gulf War and the end of the Cold War as victories for the United States.

"I have a running war with the media. They are among the most dishonest human beings on Earth. And they sort of made it sound like I had a feud with the intelligence community. - Jan. 21, remarks at the CIA.

On Dec. 9, when The Washington Post reported that intelligence officials had concluded that Russia had sought to undermine Hillary Clinton in the election, the Trump team issued a statement: "These are the same people that said Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction. After information leaked that Trump had been briefed that an unverified dossier alleged Russia had embarrassing information about him, Trump lashed out at the intelligence agencies and asked: "Are we living in Nazi Germany? The media simply reported what Trump said about the intelligence community.

"I looked out, the field was - it looked like a million, million and a half people. & The rest of the 20-block area, all the way back to the Washington Monument, was packed. - Jan. 21, remarks at the CIA

Speaking to employees at the CIA, Trump complained about news coverage showing his inauguration crowd was smaller than Barack Obama's crowd in 2009. Trump's crowd did not go all the way to the Washington Monument. No matter how you calculate it, Trump's crowd was significantly smaller than Obama's crowd - and the Women's March on Washington the next day.

"Wow, television ratings just out: 31 million people watched the Inauguration, 11 million more than the very good ratings from 4 years ago! - Jan. 22, tweet.

Actually, Obama's ratings in 2009 were 7 million people higher than Trump's numbers. Second-term inaugurals tend to get lower ratings, so Trump is cherry-picking the comparison.

"I'm a very big person when it comes to the environment. I have received awards on the environment. - Jan. 23, remarks during a meeting with business leaders.

There is little evidence that Trump received awards for the environment. The White House pointed us to a self-published book by Trump's former environmental consultant. The only award mentioned in that book was from New Jersey Audubon - but the group denied it ever gave an award to Trump, the Trump National club in Bedminster or any of its employees.

"We think we can cut regulations by 75 percent. Maybe more. - Jan. 23, meeting with business executives.

This is clearly a made-up figure. As of the end of 2015, there were nearly 180,000 pages in the code of federal regulations. So, in theory, that means getting it down to 45,000 pages. There were 71,000 pages back in 1975. Even under Ronald Reagan, the number of pages climbed almost 20 percent.

"Between 3 million and 5 million illegal votes caused me to lose the popular vote. - Jan. 23, remarks to congressional leaders.

This is a fantasy. Trump is obsessed with how he lost the popular vote by nearly 3 million votes, and so he keeps making this claim even though there is no evidence to support it.

"This is on the Keystone pipeline. & A lot of jobs, 28,000 jobs. Great construction jobs. - Jan. 24, remarks on signing executive memorandum.

In contrast to Obama, who always played down the number of jobs that would be created by the Keystone XL pipeline, Trump inflated the numbers. The project would create part-year work in four states for 10,400 workers, the State Department determined. That added up to a total of 3,900 annual construction jobs. About 12,000 other annual jobs would stem from direct spending on the project. So that adds up to 16,000, most of which are not construction jobs.

"We ended up winning by a massive amount, 306. I needed 270. We got 306. - Jan. 25, interview with ABC News.

Trump's electoral college margin was relatively narrow by historical standards. He ranks 46th out 58 elections. A switch of about 40,000 votes in three states would have swung the election to Clinton.

"Then he's groveling again. You know I always talk about the reporters that grovel when they want to write something that you want to hear but not necessarily millions of people want to hear or have to hear. - Jan. 25, interview with ABC News.

Trump attacked the author of a 2012 Pew Center on the States report for saying his report did not back up Trump's claims of voter fraud. Trump suggested the researcher had changed his tune, but when the report was issued the author repeatedly explained it did not reflect voter fraud.

"When President Obama was there two weeks ago making a speech, very nice speech. Two people were shot and killed during his speech. - Jan. 25, interview with ABC News.

No one was shot and killed in Chicago on Jan. 10, 2017, the day Obama gave his farewell speech, according to the Chicago Police Department.

"You had millions of people that now aren't insured anymore. - Jan. 25, interview with ABC News.

In attacking the Affordable Care Act, Trump repeats a whopper. Some 20 million people have gained health coverage because of the law. About 2 million people were told their old plans no longer qualified under the law, but after an uproar, most received waivers that kept the plans going until the end of 2017. In any case, anyone whose plan was terminated could buy new insurance.
Copyright, 2017, Charleston Newspapers
