Voter fraud phantoms 
December 4, 2016 | Denver Post, The (CO) 
Section: PERSPECT 
266 Words 
Page: 3D 
OpenURL 
Link 
Excerpted from an editorial in The Washington Post 
The presidential campaign eroded many customs, but in the end the legitimacy of the results were reaffirmed. Or so it seemed. 
Then Jill Stein, the Green Party presidential nominee, pressed for recounts in a handful of swing states, based on thin suspicions of election tampering. The Clinton campaign went along so its representatives would be present for any official review. 
Yet it was Trump's reaction that was the most corrosive. Following the Clinton camp's decision to join in the recount, the president-elect lashed out on Twitter on Sunday. 
"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally," Trump wrote, offering zero evidence for the incendiary charge. 
The president-elect appeared to be repeating a debunked story circulating on conspiracy-peddling right-wing websites that claims millions of noncitizens voted. 
The president-elect above all others bears responsibility to safeguard and defend the integrity of the nation's democratic government. For those who hoped that as president-elect he would be slower to take offense than he had been as candidate, and less willing to trade in lies, the tweet came as one more disappointment. 
The nation, in fact, does have a voting problem, but it is not the imaginary fraud that Trump conjures. Rather, it is a system that makes it too difficult for citizens to cast their votes. 
If Trump's preoccupation with phantom voting fraud is any indication, his administration may spend a lot of time making ballot access worse, not better. 
The integrity of the country's democracy would suffer for it. 
Copyright (c) 2016 The Denver Post Corp. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
'Voter fraud phantoms', Denver Post, The (online), 4 Dec 2016 3D http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1611F1789C3E29E0 
