Cascade Of Lies Coming From New President 
January 29, 2017 | Hartford Courant, The (CT) 
Author: Bill Press 
Section: Opinion 
715 Words 
Page: 5C 
OpenURL 
Link 
Every day, tourists from across the country and around the globe flock to the White House, where they stand before our national shrine in awe for what it represents: democracy, freedom, equality. 
But no more. 
Today, sadly, it represents something else: a fact-free zone where nobody tells the truth. Under Donald Trump, the White House has become a Palace of Lies -in just one week. 
Can't we all agree on this? 
It's not the job of the president to tell lies. And it's not the job of the White House press secretary to repeat and defend those lies. Apparently, nobody's informed Donald Trump or Sean Spicer of that. In these early days of the administration, we've seen nothing but a cascade of lies from both the president and the press secretary. 
It started the day after his inauguration when Trump, the ultimate size-ist, refused to accept the fact that fewer people turned out for his inauguration than for Barack Obama's in 2009. That was more than his so-easily bruised ego could bear. 
Trump insisted he'd actually drawn a crowd of 1.5 million. He then dispatched his press secretary to accuse reporters of trying to undermine the legitimacy of his presidency, while unleashing another string of lies: that side-by-side photos showing a much smaller crowd in 2017 than in 2009 had been doctored; that ridership on the D.C. Metro was higher in 2017; that Trump also had a bigger TV audience; that plastic covering had been placed on the Mall for the first time; and that the Secret Service had added extra security measures near the White House, which accounted for all those empty bleachers. 
None of which was true. Repeat: Not one word was true. 
Reliable experts put the Trump inaugural crowd at about 650,000. The National Park Service took both photos at the same time from the top of the Washington Monument. 
On Jan. 20, 2009, 1.1 million people rode the Metro, compared to 570, 557 in 2017. One day later, the Women's March on Washington drew 1 million riders. As for TV viewership, according to Nielsen, Ronald Reagan pulled the biggest audience, 41.8 million, Obama in 2009, 37.8 million, Trump, 30.6 million. Plus the same plastic covering had been used before and the Secret Service denied any additional security measures. 
From Trump and Spicer, in other words, it was all a pack of lies. 
But even that big lie pales in comparison to Trump's assertion one day later that he would have won the popular vote -if millions of undocumented immigrants had not voted for Hillary Clinton. To back up his claim of the wholesale corruption of our democracy, however, Trump offered not one scintilla of evidence. Because he couldn't. 
Pressed for proof the next day, Spicer lamely insisted "this is something the president believes," as if belief is the same as fact. Spicer and Trump also repeatedly cite a Pew report, which, he claims, shows that 14 percent of 2012 voters were nonvoters. 
There's only one problem. There was no 2008 Pew report. A 2012 Pew report highlighted the need to purge voter rolls -where some people, for example, because they had moved, were actually registered to vote in two states -but did not discuss voter fraud. And authors of a 2014 report that did assert that 14 percent of voters in 2012 were noncitizens have since repudiated their own study. They got their numbers wrong and they admit it. 
But, of course, Donald Trump will never admit he's wrong about anything. Never has, and never will. 
In 2015, he claimed "Celebrity Apprentice" was the No. 1 show on television. It was not. He claimed it was the No. 1 show on Monday nights. It was not. That season, it came in 67th. 
For some in the media, that poses a dilemma: What do you call these untruths? Falsehoods? Exaggerations? Alternative facts? 
That's no dilemma for me. 
Thousands of Muslims danced in New Jersey on Sept. 11? Four million undocumented immigrants voted for Hillary Clinton? The media invented his rift with the CIA? Mexico will pay for the wall? That's a no-brainer. 
When he knows something's not true and he keeps repeating it anyway, call it what it is. It's a lie. And Donald Trump is a pathological liar. If we can't believe him about crowd size, what can we believe him about? 
Tribune Content Agency 
bill@billpress.com 
Copyright (c) 2017 The Hartford Courant Co. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
BillPress, 'Cascade OfLies Coming FromNewPresident', Hartford Courant, The (online), 29 Jan 2017 5C http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/162372C748CBC908 
