Kansas views on taxes, Pompeo, Kobach, Fort Hays ouster 
December 5, 2016 | Wichita Eagle, The (KS) 
Author: The Wichita Eagle 
Section: editorials 
277 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
Raise taxes  Revenue shortfalls are hurting a number of state programs  from education to highways to social services. The first thing to do is to rescind the tax exemptions granted to limited liability companies that have angered many Kansans. That wont be enough, though. Legislators should look at all the states revenue sources to see which might be tweaked a little to produce more income  such as liquor taxes and gasoline taxes. 
Topeka Capital-Journal 
Pompeo  President-elect Donald Trump provided a pleasant surprise with his selection of U.S. Rep. Mike Pompeo, R-Wichita, to head the Central Intelligence Agency. Pompeo is an apt candidate and one who brings a wealth of education, experience and intelligence to the post. 
Hutchinson News 
Kobach  Weve had our issues with Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, particularly with regard to his extreme position on immigration and his contrived battle against voter fraud. And while we wouldnt object if he were to find more constructive outlets for his considerable intellectual gifts, recent developments remind us that we ought to be careful about what we wish for: Kobach might well be the countrys next secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. 
Manhattan Mercury 
FHSU ouster  Amid all the allegations and insinuations preceding the abrupt change in leadership at Fort Hays State University, one thing is certain: Mirta M. Martin no longer is president. She concluded the universitys shortest tenure at the helm when the Kansas Board of Regents forced her to resign and become a presidential consultant. Martin can leave Fort Hays with her head held high. The same cannot be said for some of those she leaves behind. 
Hays Daily News 
Copyright 2016 The Wichita Eagle 
Citation (aglc Style) 
The Wichita Eagle, 'Kansas views on taxes, Pompeo, Kobach, Fort Hays ouster', Wichita Eagle, The (online), 5 Dec 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/documentview?p=AWNB&docref=news/16116047133ACA60 
