Kansas views on legislative leaders, jobless rate, Kobach, free tuition 
December 12, 2016 | Wichita Eagle, The (KS) 
Author: Eagle Editorial Board, The Wichita Eagle 
Section: editorials 
267 Words 
OpenURL 
Link 
New leaders  The 2016 election made clear that the voters arent happy with the direction the state is headed. The challenges are as big as they have ever been and will require compromise and collaboration to solve. It remains to be seen if newly elected House Speaker Ron Ryckman Jr., R-Olathe, and Senate President Susan Wagle, R-Wichita, can offer such consensus-building leadership in 2017. 
Lawrence Journal-World 
Jobless rate  Its discouraging that the states economists expect Kansas to have a higher jobless rate than the nation as a whole beginning in 2018, but its hardly catastrophic. Thats because both unemployment rates are expected to be below 5 percent, which is pretty darn good. The problem for Kansas is that it is losing jobs while the nation is adding them. 
Manhattan Mercury 
Kobach  Secretary of State Kris Kobach has long had a bizarre preoccupation with voter fraud, and his recent assertions about millions of undocumented immigrants illegally participating in the presidential election prove that its only becoming more extreme. Theres no evidence for this claim, and perpetuating it is an irresponsible exacerbation of unjustified suspicions that are already far too prevalent in American society. 
Topeka Capital-Journal 
Free tuition  Bethany College announced that it will offer free tuition  for a full four years  to any high school graduate from McPherson or Saline counties. Its an exciting program, and one that very well could result in keeping some of todays high school students in the area well past graduation  and preventing their skill, education and work ethic from being drained off to some faraway place. 
Hutchinson News 
Copyright 2016 The Wichita Eagle 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Eagle Editorial Board, The Wichita Eagle, 'Kansas views on legislative leaders, jobless rate, Kobach, free tuition', Wichita Eagle, The (online), 12 Dec 2016 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/1613AEE42F9B2A10 
