Votes from the grave:This election, paranoia reigns 
November 2, 2016 | Times-Picayune, The (New Orleans, LA) 
Author: Alan Rappeport  2016, The New York Times 
Section: NATIONAL 
742 Words 
Page: A03 
OpenURL 
Link 
There was the myth of Trump supporters sending wild dogs to scare off black voters in Ohio. In Texas, some of the voting booths supposedly became possessed, switching ballots cast for Donald Trump to Hillary Clinton. And then there was the amateur genealogist said to be committing voter fraud by jotting down names found on gravestones. 
A week before Election Day, warnings of a rigged vote, amplified largely by Trump himself, have led to anxiety across the country about the integrity of the electoral process. In some instances the concerns appear to be justified, but many have resulted from simple glitches or a heightened sense of suspicion. In any case, a year of extraordinary political polarization has left voters increasingly wary about their fellow citizens and the credibility of the countrys method for picking a president. 
I think theres definitely more paranoia this year, said Pamela Smith, the president of Verified Voting, a nonpartisan group that promotes the integrity of elections. There has been a lot of talk about election rigging. If you think an election is going to be rigged, then you look at everything through that filter. 
One of the most fiercely contested battlegrounds, Ohio, has been a hotbed of suspicion. Over the weekend, a political activist with more than 30,000 Twitter followers wrote a post claiming that Trump supporters with dogs were threatening black voters who went to the polls early in Cincinnati. The post sent his followers into a frenzy, but local officials said the man, Jim Wallis, was making a false claim. The message was later deleted. 
I saw a couple of Seeing Eye dogs, one miniature horse wearing a campaign sign and another rather large but friendly dog on a leash, Tim Burke, the chairman of the Hamilton County Board of Elections, told The Cincinnati Enquirer. 
In Butler County, Ohio, Leah Edwards notified the authorities about voter fraud when she saw a man taking notes and photographing gravestones at a cemetery. I cant think of any other reason a person would be doing this, she wrote on the Facebook page of the Butler County Sheriffs Office. 
A man claiming that he was the one later detained at the cemetery, Frank Flack, posted a reply that assailed Edwards for being irresponsible. He said he had been photographing grave markers for a find a grave memorial project. 
Not all of the early-voting problems reported this year are figments of imagination. Kristen Clarke, the executive director of the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, said that her organizations national hotline for reporting problems at the polls had received about 50,000 calls this year, and that 
there had been more complaints about voter intimidation than in 2012. 
We have observed a more fevered pitch in the kinds of calls that we received from voters, Clarke said. Most certainly this is an election cycle fueled by toxic rhetoric and one in which anxiety levels are higher. 
A woman from Des Moines was arrested last week and accused of casting early ballots for Trump in two Iowa locations. In Miami-Dade County, Florida, a 74-year-old elections employee was arrested after co-workers said she had tampered with ballots sent by mail. 
On Monday, the North Carolina NAACP filed a federal lawsuit to try to stop state and local election boards from canceling the registrations of thousands of black voters. 
Voters appear to be more suspicious of one another this year, said Wendy Weiser, the director of the democracy program at the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University. But Weiser said she did not expect voter fraud to be more prevalent. 
In fact, Trumps loud assertion that the election is rigged may have the effect of making irregularities even rarer. 
One of the silver linings is that people are even more prepared, Weiser said. Theres undoubtedly more attention being paid to whats going on in polling places. 
The following fields overflowed: 
PUBLICATION = BN, HV, PR, NN, LG, RT, DE, SS, DG, H1, NT, F1, F3, H2, H3, D1, B1, I1, OG, O1, O2, O3, Y1, A1, A2, A3, T1, B2, O4, O5 
EDITION = AL Birmingham, AL Huntsville, AL Mobile, NO Times-Picayune, NO Lagniappe, NO Inside Out, NO Wish Southshore, NO Specials, NO Tab Specials, NO Wish Northshore, NO Legals, NOP Near West Bank, NOP Far West Bank, NOP Slidell, NOP West Tammany, NOP East Jefferson, NOP New Orleans, NOP River Parishes, NOP St Bernard, ORE -Main, ORE -Friday Living East, ORE Friday Living West, ORE -Yes, ORE -A&E, ORE -Argus East, ORE -Argus West, ORE ThisWeek, ORE Big5, ORE -Sunday Comics, ORE -Sunday Early Single Copy 
Copyright, 2016, The Times -Picayune Publishing Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Used by NewsBank with Permission. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
AlanRappeport 2016,The NewYorkTimes, 'Votes fromthe grave:This election,paranoia reigns', Times-Picayune, The (online), 2 Nov 2016 A03 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/16066A519DF4B768 
