Trump should let Romney help make America great again 
December 1, 2016 | Times-Picayune, The (New Orleans, LA) 
Author: Frank Bruni 2016 The New York Times 
Section: NATIONAL 
792 Words 
Page: A08 
OpenURL 
Link 
A show of hands, please: How many of you would like Donald Trump to step away  far away  from his Twitter account? Im pretty sure I have a majority, but to be safe: How many can at least agree on no tweets before breakfast? 
Yowza. Im above 95 percent. Reince, you dont have to nod wildly and jump up and down; the raised hand alone will do. And you get one hand, Melania, not two. Two is a real, provable case of voter fraud. 
Thanks in part to the president-elects predilection for outbursts of fewer than 140 characters, he routinely comes across as petty and mercurial. But right now he has an opportunity for the opposite impression. He can choose Mitt Romney as his secretary of state. 
That hes actually mulling this  the two were scheduled for a second meeting about it, over dinner, Tuesday night  is alone extraordinary. Trump knows how to carry a grudge the way Jim Brown knew how to carry a football, and Romney gave him cause for vengefulness, with a major speech during the Republican primaries that labeled him a fraud and exhorted Americans to reject him. 
Had some knowledgeable intimate of Trumps told me on Nov. 9 that an unexpected fate awaited Romney, the State Department would have been my millionth guess. The stockade would have been my first. 
If Trump taps Romney, hell be sending a powerful message to an anxious world that hes not hostage to the darkest parts of his character. He needs to project that as much as we need to see it. 
Granted, Romneys rsum isnt the most logical for the job. He has spent most of his life as a businessman, and his lone public office was governor of Massachusetts. 
But not all our secretaries of state were steeped in foreign affairs from an early point, like Madeleine Albright and Condoleezza Rice. Many had backgrounds principally devoted to other concerns. That was true of James Baker, who held the post under the first President Bush, and of Hillary Clinton, though she traveled the world as first lady and served on the Senate Armed Services Committee. 
Besides which, Romney isnt competing against the entire universe of possibilities. Hes competing against Rudy Giuliani, who, over recent years, has done such a masterful impersonation of a raving lunatic that I doubt he could get seasonal retail work at the Container Store. 
David Petraeus is also in play, but his supposed brilliance matters less in this case than his conviction 
for mishandling classified information. Picking him would brand Trump an utter hypocrite, given how vehemently he threatened to jail Clinton for related trespasses. 
As for Sen. Bob Corker, hes a real Washington insider, unlike Romney, and doesnt have the useful political celebrity that Clinton and then John Kerry brought to the position. Romney does. 
Over his own two presidential campaigns, Romney became ever more fluent in international issues, and he even showed some prescience, identifying Vladimir Putins Russia as a grave menace before other politicians woke up to that. He was ridiculed for dwelling in the past. Turns out he was living in the future. 
That wariness and his advocacy of free trade put him at odds with Trump but also make him a prudent counterbalance, if Trump can find the modesty and confidence to size up the situation that way. (Thats a big if.) So do Romneys seriousness and unflappability. Hed temper Trumps tantrums. Giuliani would just goad Trump on. 
With Trumps Cabinet and staff picks so far, he has repaid his staunchest supporters. With Romney, he would be taking a more inclusive, conciliatory approach that befits his lack of any mandate, tries to move the country past such a divisive campaign and reassures jittery allies. It would be an open-minded, bighearted, self-aware move that challenges Americans to see him in a more nuanced light. It would help him govern, by signaling that hes bigger than his grievances. 
Despite the howls of protest from some on the right, it would hardly be an undignified, unprecedented surrender: There was bad blood aplenty between Clinton and President Barack Obama before he brought her aboard. 
It would also reward someone who seems to have the countrys best interests at heart. Romney, interestingly, would be following the example of his father, George, who went from Richard Nixons adversary to his housing secretary, because a person can arguably do more on the field, under a flawed coach, than on the sidelines, griping. A person can potentially steer the game in a better direction. 
So theres a Trump tweet I do hope to see: Impressive dinner with Mitt Romney. I believe he can help us MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN. Hes hired! 
Copyright, 2016, The Times -Picayune Publishing Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Used by NewsBank with Permission. 
Citation (aglc Style) 
Frank Bruni 2016 The New York Times, 'Trump should let Romney help make America great again', Times-Picayune, The (online), 1 Dec 2016 A08 http://haproxy.newsbank.com:11021:11021/apps/news/document-view? p=AWNB&docref=news/160FFC6732541C08 
