
Bannon will be Trump's chief strategist. Whither Breitbart News? Washington Post analysis
Newspaper November 14, 2016 | Oregonian, The: Web Edition Articles (Portland, OR)
Author: Syndicated columns Section: Opinion 1094 Words
Bannon will be Trump's chief strategist. Whither Breitbart News? Washington Post analysis
By Paul Farhi

Stephen K. Bannon helped build Breitbart News into the clarion of Donald Trump's anti-establishment political movement with a pugnacious approach that critics have called racist, misogynistic and xenophobic. And then Bannon really went to work for Trump, steering the campaign that made Trump the 45th president.

Now, as Trump ascends to the White House, the question is: Where does Breitbart end and Bannon and the new administration they helped midwife begin?

Trump on Sunday named Bannon his chief White House strategist and senior counselor, a powerful position that acknowledges Bannon's role as the "Trump whisperer," the man with the president-elect's ear. Bannon, a former investment banker, joined Trump's campaign in August and helped guide it to its stunning upset over Democrat Hillary Clinton last week.

Since then, neither Bannon nor Breitbart have spelled out what their relationship will be after candidate Trump becomes President Trump. But even if Bannon and Breitbart sever all ties, they will face an unusual, and awkward, situation: Bannon would be the former executive of a media organization that openly supported his political patron who will serve the president in a senior capacity while his media organization continues to cover him and his new boss.

"Breitbart will now go from being the propaganda arm of the Trump campaign to effectively becoming a state-run medium," said Kurt Bardella, Breitbart's former spokesman. "They will exist to tell the narrative of the Trump presidency to their audience to ensure their alternate reality they successfully ran on stays intact regardless of the situational reality and condition of this country. There is no separation between Breitbart and the Trump White House."

Bannon remains on Breitbart's masthead as its executive chairman, although his day-to-day involvement as its chief editorial strategist (and host of its daily satellite radio program) were mothballed when he officially joined Trump's team over the summer.

Beyond that, much is unclear. Breitbart, like Trump, has never made its financial records public, so it's not known whether Bannon owns stock in the organization and whether he would sell it to avoid any appearance of a conflict while serving in the White House.

The company - which is based in Los Angeles but operates a newsroom out of a Capitol Hill townhouse that also serves as Bannon's pied-à-terre in Washington - is closely held among a few people, including co-founder Larry Solov and the family of the late Andrew Breitbart, its other co-founder.

One of Breitbart's primary financial backers is billionaire hedge-fund manager Robert Mercer, whose daughter, Rebekah, is part of Trump's presidential transition team. The Mercers were reportedly influential in persuading Trump to add Bannon and pollster Kellyanne Conway to his campaign team.

Alexander Marlow, Breitbart's editor in chief, declined to clarify the site's relationship with Bannon in an exchange of emails Sunday. Breitbart's spokeswoman, Alexandra Preate, also would not offer a response. Bannon did not reply to a request for comment.

The most obvious change is definitional. Trump's election has transformed Breitbart from a scrappy, even scabrous outsider - the scourge of what Bannon and Marlow contemptuously refer to as "the establishment" - into the ultimate insider and defender of the status quo.

The "outsider" role was enormously rewarding for Breitbart, which started in 2008 as an aggregator of wire-service stories selected by Breitbart and Marlow, then a student at the University of California at Berkeley. Since then, and particularly this year, it has grown into the home of the rising Trump movement and its shadowy underbelly, the alt-right that is often synonymous with racism and white nationalism.

Last month, it reported that it had reached a new high-water mark for traffic, with 37 million unique visitors - a count that rivals such mainstream news sites as ABCNews.com and CBSNews.com and exceeds LATimes.com.

On Monday, Breitbart continued to stump for Trump with headlines that attacked his now-defeated, and largely powerless, opponents.

"Clinton Top Aide Huma Abedin Seen Openly Weeping on Streets of New York," read one. Another: "Giuliani: 'Professional Protesters,' Not Hillary Supporters, Marching Across the Nation." And another: "Meltdown Continues: Wave of Fake 'Hate Crimes' Sweeps Social Media."

It also kept up its relentless attacks on immigration and "multiculturalism" that not only echo Trump's views but those of Europe's far-right political parties, such as Nigel Farage's UK Independence Party in Britain and Marine Le Pen's National Front. A typical headline on the site on Monday: "Feds Pull Agents Off Open Border to 'Process' Alien Surge."

Bannon was little known outside political circles until he was appointed to Trump's campaign in mid-August. The spotlight was not flattering; reporters unearthed a police report from 1996 in which one of Bannon's ex-wives, Mary-Louise Piccard, accused him of misdemeanor domestic violence, battery and dissuading a witness (Bannon pleaded not guilty and the charges were dropped). Piccard later said in divorce proceedings that Bannon didn't want their daughters to attend an exclusive school in Los Angeles because many Jewish students attended the school and "he didn't want the girls going to school with Jews."

Another media report disclosed that Bannon and another ex-wife were registered to vote in two places, including at a vacant house in Florida that was scheduled to be demolished - a potential violation of election law. The report was particularly ironic, given Trump's claims of rampant voter fraud.

All of which may help explain negative reactions to Trump's appointment of Bannon to a senior role in his administration. On Sunday, Republican strategist and CNN and ABC News commentator Ana Navarro tweeted about Bannon: "A white supremacist Neanderthal in WH w/President's ear is DISGUSTING & TERRIFYING."

Breitbart's biggest star is British blogger and provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos, who helped lead the attacks on female video game programmers in an online troll war that became known as Gamergate. Twitter permanently banned Yiannopoulos in July after he led a wave of racist abuse of "Ghostbusters" star Leslie Jones.

"They were the house organ for Trump and will obviously remain so," said Ben Shapiro, a former columnist and editor at large at Breitbart.

Bardella and Shapiro ended their association with Breitbart in March after the site publicly doubted and later rebuked one of its own reporters, Michelle Fields, after an incident at a Trump news conference in Florida. Field said Trump's then-campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, had grabbed her arm and yanked her away from Trump as she sought to interview him at the event.

Trump and Lewandowski denied Fields's assertions and, like Breitbart, disparaged her. But a closed-circuit recording of the event showed that Lewandowski had done exactly what Fields described.

(c) 2016, The Washington Post
Copyright 2016 The Oregonian. All Rights Reserved.
