
Trumpian myths befuddle voters and journalists
Newspaper November 4, 2016 | Post and Courier, The: Web Edition Articles (Charleston, SC)
Author: Staff Writer Section: Commentary 809 Words

BY JENNIFER RUBIN

More people have access via the palm of their hand -- or rather, via the smartphone in the palm of their hand -- to more information than any generation of people has ever enjoyed. People also have access to more urban myths, propaganda, hoaxes, misinformation and outright lies from more sources than at any time in human history. It is the latter that should concern us.

There is the nonsense from talk radio/Sean Hannity/immigration exclusionists -- birtherism, massive voter fraud, illegal immigrants flooding over the border to murder us in our sleep.

There is also the misinformation that leads us to infantilize and pity Donald Trump supporters. Innocent victims of globalism? Not so much, as others like James Kirchick have pointed out:

"Contrary to popular conception, however, the median household income of a Trump primary voter is a healthy $72,000 a year, well above the $62,000 national average and higher than the median incomes of those who supported both Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders. Meanwhile, 44 percent of Trump voters have college degrees, far more than the 29 percent of the general adult population. According to a Gallup working paper based upon interviews with some 87,000 Trump supporters over the past year, the most exhaustive statistical analysis of the Trump phenomenon completed thus far, 'There appears to be no link whatsoever between exposure to trade competition and support for nationalist policies in America, as embodied by the Trump campaign." The same study also found "little clear evidence that economic hardship predicts support for Trump, in that higher household incomes tend to predict higher Trump support.' "

We know about the high association between Trump support and belief that President Barack Obama is a Muslim and between pro-Trump enclaves and "counties in a distinct cluster of Midwestern states - Iowa, Indiana, Wisconsin, Illinois and Minnesota - [that] saw among the fastest influxes of nonwhite residents of anywhere in the U.S. between 2000 and 2015. Hundreds of cities long dominated by white residents got a burst of Latino newcomers who migrated from Central America or uprooted from California and Texas." It turns out, according to one study, that hostility to women is another strong indicator of support for Trump. ("The higher they were on the sexism scale, the more likely they were to support Trump and the less likely they were to support Clinton. Hostile sexism was nearly as good at predicting support for Trump as party identification was.")

To deny there is a strong racist component to Trump's campaign is to deny reality. The economic dislocation spurred by technological innovation and recession coincided but was not caused by these newcomers. (We have experienced a high-skill manufacturing uptick such that we are at a 15-year high for unfilled manufacturing jobs.)

In the misinformation department, we also have quite a lot of economic quackery. Unfortunately, too many otherwise sensible folks seem certain that the problem is trade and immigration, and the solution is to slow down both. That makes for less growth, less innovation and more poverty, but it does not help the high-school dropout in Youngstown, Ohio. (Many on the right peculiarly attribute African American unemployment to the cycle of welfare dependency, abuse of disability benefits and bad life choices, while attributing white hardship to Wall Street greed or globalism or phantom illegal immigrants.)

John Cochrane tells us that the quacks have it backward. Too many who should know better suffer from "a mercantilist mentality - thinking jobs are lumps of labor, trade is a competition for exports, and other countries are hurting us when they send us great stuff cheap." He explains:

"Economic growth itself depends on globalization, expanding the number of people with whom we trade ideas, skills, and goods. If you live in a village of one hundred, or even a small country of ten million, inventing an iPhone makes no sense. You'll never sell enough to recoup the costs. It only makes sense to innovate if you can sell it in a global market of billions of people. Growth comes from ideas, ideas are hard to come by, and expertise is specialized."

Donald Trump's candidacy is evidence of the ease with which a media-savvy demagogue can bamboozle the unwary and magnify our darkest tendencies. The media has contributed to this, not merely by giving Trump effectively open-mic night (night after night) to spew his nonsense for 18 months. There, too, economic ignorance is profound. When headlines treat the "trade deficit" as a sign of our economic decline or when cable TV news networks flash pictures of the Mexican border whenever covering illegal immigration (which is largely a problem of visa overstays given our net outflow of people on the southern border), they contribute to the grip of ignorance and serve up fuel for dangerous demagogues.

The solution to the flood of misinformation is trite but inescapable -- more public education, better journalism, more courageous leaders.

Jennifer Rubin is a columnist for The Washington Post.
Copyright, 2016, The Post and Courier. All Rights Reserved.
