
Hand-wringing over Trump’s answer is ludicrous
Newspaper October 28, 2016 | Providence Journal (RI)
Section: RI Opinion 612 Words
Article Page: 15

Horrifying.” “A disqualifier.” “Political suicide.”

Such were the breathless reactions as soon as Donald Trump came off stage in the final debate after finally combining a thorough demarcation of issue differences with a more cogent summation of Hillary Clinton’s scandal tally.

Most analysts, even some who despise Trump, called it his best debate performance of the three. That is, except for “The Moment.”

Moderator Chris Wallace, universally and deservedly hailed for even-handedness, asked Trump if he would absolutely accept the election night result, no matter what it may be.

For most of our history, that has simply meant: if you lose, will you concede? But the last few years have brought thick smatterings of voter fraud, and a few elections that may well have turned on it, from concerns about Al Franken’s 2008 senate win to JFK beating Nixon in 1960 due to mischief in Illinois and Texas.

Throw in 2000, when Al Gore refused to accept the result until the U.S. Supreme Court informed him that Florida would not be permitted to rewrite election laws from its state judicial bench, and the narrative is set that Election Day can contain some twists that may not reflect truth at the stroke of midnight, or even beyond.

Trump said nothing more than “I’ll let you know that night.” This sparked a festival of hand-wringing and pearl-clutching as if the planet had spun out of its orbit.

The gasps suggested that this was some threat to the “peaceful transfer of power,” central to our democracy for 240 years. What a crock.

The threat to democracy lies not in the occasional candidate who might want to see if there arises a razor-thin margin accompanied by the aroma of fraud, but in the thick notebook of cases featuring multiple voting, impostor voting, and my favorite, corpse voting.

Take care of those, and then everyone can climb on their high horses about someone daring to suggest our system may not be perfect.

Such observations are not an assault on our election system, or even an insult cast toward it. They are merely a sober realization that people cheat, and that sometimes they succeed. Against that backdrop, it is not comforting to see activist judges knocking down Voter ID laws in Texas and elsewhere, on the absurd (and racist) premise that people of color cannot manage to get an ID with years of advance notice.

The whining about Trump’s debate answer betrays more than just craven opportunism; it is also fairly ignorant. Has anyone met the man?

What could be more Trumpian than a refusal to dance to the usual tune? Anyone covering the campaign for more than a day should also know that if he had said, “Sure, I’ll accept the result,” the headlines would have read, “Trump admits defeat.”

As it is, we are all talking about voter fraud, which was precisely what he wanted. The morning after the debate, he tweaked his tormentors even more. “I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election,” he told an Ohio crowd. “If I win.”

The CNN story chronicling that appearance said that claim “threatens to cast unprecedented doubt on the legitimacy of the electoral process.” Oh, the humanity.

The electoral process is a human process. Today’s doubts about it are not rare, and they are not an attack on our magnificent system, but rather on those who would pervert it with chicanery.

So everybody grow up, and let’s spend the home stretch talking about actual issues, which Trump was doing with notable effectiveness in the final debate, necessitating the concoction of this wildly hyped non-story.

—Mark Davis (markdavisshow@gmail.com) is a radio host in North Texas and a special contributor to the Dallas Morning News.
Copyright © 2016 Providence Journal, All Rights Reserved.
