
Deroy Murdock: Why do Democrats fear vote fraud probe?
Newspaper January 27, 2017 | New Hampshire Union Leader/New Hampshire Sunday News: Web Edition Articles (Manchester, NH)
Author: DEROY MURDOCK Section: Columns 657 Words
Deroy Murdock: Why do Democrats fear vote fraud probe?
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP promised Wednesday "a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD," as he explained via Twitter. This will include "those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and even those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time). Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures!"

This impending probe follows Trump's private remarks to congressional leaders Monday evening that 3 to 5 million illegal ballots cost him the popular vote.

Democrats, in response, are foaming at their mouths, although one wonders if they have any foam left. How odd. They should welcome this examination. If vote fraud really is a fevered, baseless, right-wing fantasy, as they reliably insist, this investigation will vindicate them and make Trump look like a cranky, paranoid conspiracist. Liberals should smile and egg Trump on.

Instead, Rep. Adam Schiff, D–Calif., warns, "Our new President is doing deep damage to himself and to our country." Regarding Trump's plan, U.S. Rep. Keith Ellison, D-Minn., insists: "Fight it NOW!"

In their hearts, the Left knows Trump is right, at least on the existence of vote fraud. His investigation will show whether these problems are as pervasive as Trump believes.

Indeed, registration irregularities are disturbingly routine. According to a 2012 Pew Center for the States report, 1.8 million dead Americans were registered to vote. Also, 2.75 million Americans were enrolled in two states each, while 68,725 were enrolled in three. Indeed, Pew found, "24 million — one of every eight — active voter registrations in the United States are no longer valid or are significantly inaccurate."

And, yes, Virginia. Vote fraud happens.

CBS2 Los Angeles found 265 dead voters in southern California last May. Many cast ballots "year after year."

Ohio Democrats cheered Melowese Richardson at a May 2014 Cincinnati-area rally, as Town Hall's Guy Benson recalls. Richardson was convicted of voting twice in 2012 and casting ballots in three earlier elections on behalf of her comatose sister.

North Carolina announced in April 2014 that 13,416 dead voters were registered, of whom 81 recently had voted. Among 35,750 North Carolinians also registered in other states, 765 voted in the 2012 general election both inside and outside the Tar Heel State.

South Carolina's attorney general determined in January 2012 that 953 people "were deceased at the time of their participation in recent elections."

Former federal prosecutor and vote-fraud expert J. Christian Adams recommends a machete that would help Trump chop quickly to the center of much of this fraud.

The Homeland Security Department's Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) database lists all non-citizens in America. These include green card holders, foreign tourists, exchange students, and those on work visas as well as illegals who have broken the law or otherwise surfaced on Uncle Sam's radar. Adams tells me: "This is the ultimate alien database."

Comparing SAVE's names with registered and actual voters should demonstrate, rather swiftly, the extent of non-citizen involvement in America's election system. It also would identify violators, who should be punished.

"If that federal database were used to scrub the state databases," Adams predicts, "all sorts of illegals would pop out. That's what the Left fears the most. It would reveal rats everywhere."

Obama barred state election officials from SAVE since, as he might have said, Let me be clear, vote fraud is a myth, so why measure it? Instead, Trump should open SAVE, so every state may compare its voters against this massive database.

After Trump's inquiry, the scale of vote fraud may or may not reach his claim of 3 to 5 million bogus ballots. But Trump's analysis almost surely will show that vote fraud is greater than zero, which is the number that Democrats claim it to be. And that's the point. Americans should have zero tolerance for vote fraud. How sad that this problem is among the few things that reputedly tolerant Democrats actually tolerate.

- - -- -- - - -

Deroy Murdock is a Manhattan-based Fox News contributor and a contributing editor with National Review Online.
Copyright, 2017, Union Leader Corp.
